# Elena Sikirich with members of the Living Forces. On the "tests" before 2000

September 25, 1999. Transcription of audio recording

\[...\] In the New Acropolis there is a kind of Acropolis courtesy, which is part of the official decree and also, if you look at schools like the West, is part of what is in the blood, in particular the behavior of students in certain situations. Since Delia is coming soon, and it would be good to know... The rules of the Acropolis Court are as follows. If there is an MN (amen, “national leader”) or a high-ranking sekirich in the room, then people do not sit if this person is standing on his feet. And they only sit down after MN or sekirich has sat down. They only smoke a cigarette after they smoke. If the MN is indoors, then people look up to it in terms of behavior. He stands, everyone stands, he sits down, everyone sits down. When everyone is at the same table, no one eats before the table. If you need to leave before him, you need to ask permission. I'm really asking you, especially when Delia comes, to try to apply this a little bit, and in other situations. Paying respect, not personally to the person, but to what that person conducts. Pay attention to this at experience, at meetings, in a cafe, in a smoking room, etc. We will do one block of classes, a skill in courtesy, there are a lot of beautiful moments. There's a courtesy manual that Hal wrote. To learn this new state of mind plus the nobility that manifests itself even through such small details.

Let's move on to our subject. Today’s lecture is a continuation of the momentum of the general lecture for the members. I would like to talk heart to heart today, we have not met in a long time. But unfortunately, we're limited by time and things that I'll talk about later. Therefore. I know you and I don't need much inspiration. I really hope that part of the inspiration for the GS (GES, “Living forces”) fell on the general lecture. Despite the fact that I appealed to members, I tried very hard to make sure that there were moments that GS could understand in their own way, rethink in a new way. And that could set the stage for the GS today. If that inspiration didn’t happen, I hope it will come as we try to embody everything we talk about in the lecture. We will try very hard to ensure that now and in the future, especially until the year 2000, the whole school lives under the same impulse of unification in all the senses I spoke about at the general lecture.

We will have to break through many concrete moments so that this unification will be felt not only in words, but also in deeds, and in some sense we will have to face the most difficult and perhaps the easiest task – to set an example of unification. To unite from above, to unite in actions, in impulses, in dreams, in mutual understanding, to unite on the same wave, in the purity of the soul, in those qualities that we try to awaken, and so that the members have whom to look at and whom to equal.

The impulse of the association did not begin at the general lecture for members, it had already begun at the experience of the HS in the summer and it was felt very strongly on the 1st experience of the leaders of the National Council.

I know that some of what I’m going to say today may cause conflicting reactions, maybe a bit of envy, “why we weren’t invited,” but at the risk of it, I’d like to say what we shared later: we worked on the momentum of unification, tried to define the goals of the school before 2000, went back to our origins, tried again to understand what inspires us, where we should go, what is expected of us in the next millennium, tried to feel once again what is supposed to convey to you. And through these moments, new ideas were born, many still raw, but very specific, very useful, giving impetus. When, at the end of our senior years, we were toasting for what would happen, in a sense, we felt you were all there, and we regretted that you were not there, because we really wanted to convey everything at once. It was as if for a moment all the state of mind touched the magical island we dream of. And indeed, there was a special state, as if there were no boundaries of space and time, when in a short time it became clear that we would break through and all this would be done. But when it started on Monday, it was strong. It was as if someone kicked us off the island, because problems began to emerge that we didn't realize, that we didn't talk about in our experience, but that clearly stood before us. Throughout Monday, people came up to me: “Can I have you for 5 minutes?” – I already knew that there would be a statement of another fact of the problem, which was so well forgotten during the experience. In short, we have plunged into all the problems. On the one hand, it was very difficult, on the other hand, it was very easy, because despite this, we did not lose the inspiration that was then.

I promise you that we will resume these magical moments before the year 2000. I would like to briefly pass on some of the points that I spoke about during the senior management experience, in order to really know where we should steer and what to do next, especially in the context of the momentum of unification.

First, we talked about the tasks of the school, especially the Russian school. And I don't know how much you can imagine it, we were talking about 2000. The famous exam. I even spoke more specifically in the general lecture. I was not talking so much about the exam, but about what we need to do to pass it. And there was a clear image that we talked about a lot later. This image we called the image of the nursery.

Because they started out with an occult apex, they remembered how HAL was given the task of doing everything in his power to make the school contribute to the impulse of the 6th sub-race of the 5th race. Do your best. And he received this task very specifically. He knew the criteria for this impulse. We talked about it in lectures. Love, brotherhood, synthesis of science and art, connection with heaven, new mysticism. Remembered and pityed poor Hal. One small detail was that he was given a task and was not given instructions on how to do it. Through what forms, what models. And they said that his test would be to find appropriate forms for the ideas that he would have to implement. To contribute to the birth of the 6th sub-race of the 5th race. Moreover, this contribution should not only be significant, but, if possible, the main central ideas should be such, such, such. There must be a state of mind like this and that. It must lead to a new science, a new art, a new mysticism, a new approach to God, to people, to the state of knight and lady. Those were landmarks. How do you do it, through what forms? Yes, the philosophy school is advised. This is your test.

Recalling this, we remembered that almost all Acropolis schools continued the work of HAL in this difficult work. Because each of them, including us, has been tasked with designing a model of something within a common impulse. Everyone gives birth, fights his way, finds forms for one part of the common mosaic, which is known only to Hal, Delia and God. We still can't understand her.

\[...\] In Russia, the idea of a nursery is very clearly visible. Every school is a kind of nursery. And some models, some beautiful dreams, are first tried on and through us. God knows if they will be useful to all. It all depends on how much this model has been tested on us. What kind of nursery do you think we have here now? What's being tested on us? Where do we get to? Hit what? Give birth to what? What can I do? What idea? What was born through our dreams, efforts, inspirations? What went beyond what we had in the early days of school? This is Serapeum. Other schools have their own ideas, which were born out of dreams and out of plans. How do people look at us from above? From Delia to invisible beings, Hal, etc.?

It's 2000. Does the GS member know the basic criteria? Did they become part of his life? So you watch a member of the WS, a future knight or a lady, or today's knight or a lady, behave when they're sick? Or the family? Or in the direction? Or when do they fill in the steps? Or when they struggle with their weaknesses? The criterion is the opposite. If GS behaves like this, a person who has almost entered the student path, having such criteria, such ideals and aspirations, then what can be expected from others who do not have this? And in this sense, GS is in many ways a model. On the basis of which are built those plans, models that will be given to ordinary people later, simple in the good sense of the word. That's what matters.

And if I could explain again what I told the members in the lecture. I’m going to explain it more openly to GS. What is the 2000 exam? In the year 2000, the entire Acropolis, each Acropolis school individually, will be seen as part of this chain, each Acropolis individually and each individual student individually. To sum up everything that the school as a whole did, everything that each school within the Acropolis did, everything that this or that group within the school did, direction, manipulation, etc. Is there, is it manifested, is it defeated? Are there states, actions, forms, models that could serve as a model for everyone? Right now? That's the problem. As a model, on the basis of which will be created for all mankind. That's the problem with the nursery. In the nursery always, ecology, please help me, one small place is chosen, isolated, etc. And then it tries on one soil, on another, on a third, which will yield the same grain. Here's the challenge.

And so, the momentum of unification. I'm getting to more specific points. If they look at samples, models, and this is our task and our duty, then it is necessary to follow the elementary directions and elementary things. So we need to come together, make an effort, identify things that we can model, and do that before the year 2000. Elementary. In short, so that you do not chew.

If everyone pulls in their direction, it will be very bad. Because the job won't be done. In order to unite, it is impossible to do it on command. Everyone needs to be under the same impulse. If he's not here, let him be born. Or let them find someone who's clearly under the impulse. Let me, I'm on impulse, that's for sure. Let them grab his skirt, pants, jacket, etc. And every time their impulse dries up, doesn't warm, doesn't understand, they'll look into his eyes. If that doesn’t help, tell him, “Please give me a boost or Lena will kill me!” But you can't sleep any more. We should be inspired, but not in the way that we usually were inspired abstractly. You have to be inspired very specifically. Feeling that everyone is living the things they are inspired by and helping each other feel that impulse.

I told members in a lecture that in moments like the year 2000, there's something called wave and momentum. What is it, you know, you were in a lecture? For example, right now I’m fighting the tide – we’re just trying to hold on, tired of everyone, at the end of the week. And I'm fighting the wave so that something gets to you, and I'm trying to awaken the impulse in myself and in you so that the wave becomes a desire, a basic intuitive sense of something new.

The task is to be under the impulse, what exactly, I will say later, to turn a new page in our approaches, in directions, in forms. Start over. Reborn. To understand that what used to be very good, do not say that it is bad, but that it is no longer suitable, that many forms are obsolete, that it is necessary now, while the energy is given - it is given another 98 days for this - quickly have time to see in what this new page can be turned before it is too late! Both on the individual and on the collective plane.

Therefore, you will understand me correctly, I cannot say that we have to turn a new page in the GS, in manipulations, in directions, in working with members, in the first cycle when new people come, in the temple, when my people are asleep, that is, under the old impulse! I can't! Therefore, a huge request: we will need to talk about this in the second part of the meeting. We will have to unite in impulse, to support each other, to give, to charge, to light ourselves, to break ourselves in many ways, to become vehicles of the same thing.

And in this sense, I think that in the hearts of many, I am looking now, thank you, no one is sleeping, already, I see, many are generating ideas. One says, ‘Look, in my personal life, I’ve got to get to the year 2000. The other says – here, spinning, reading: oh, direction, you need to... Maybe through this? The third says, reads, what am I to do with the passive dicks that need to be called, whether they are part of this impulse or not? The fifth says, "Oh, in the manipula of the one I wanted to put in the eye, I'm going to hug!" And the other is, listen, is giving in the eye part of the impulse or not part of it? Another one says, oh, I have so much, I have to do this again, this again, this, this, this, oh... And then he hears the chief's voice: in such a row, wake up! It's spinning. Not everyone. Now, if everyone was spinning at the same time in their moments, this would already be the impetus for unification. In terms of school, direction, degrees, apprenticeship... If everyone had it, it would mean that the HS would now, at this moment, be united in one upward impulse and catch the same archetypes. And this would mean that the ideas that have now vaguely come to everyone’s mind, in their own moments, both school and personal, would have the characteristic of the Council of Destiny, as this impulse to penetrate further.

\[After recess\] Thank you for coming on time, two minutes late. I just want to remind you that in the context of the momentum that was talked about, it would be good to go back to what they had already begun to get used to during the “skills” block, so that everything started, everyone gathered at a time when they were told not to wait for each other. This, too, in a sense, shows this momentum of unification.

Before I talk to you about specific points, let me repeat. Repetition is the mother of wisdom. You see, a new impulse: not teaching, but wisdom. We're already making a slow break, changing the sayings.

A little more about the wave and momentum in the context of the WS and in the context of what needs to be done, it is simply necessary to break through the NAD in a new way until 2000. I do not want to inspire you so that you think that now everything is under impulse and until 2000 everything will go smoothly, beautifully, well, we will all go now, everyone will realize that there will be no difficulties. The transition from the meeting of leaders to everyday life and problems gave us a good lesson: no matter what island you visit, the island lasts a moment, a second, a state to show that when you leave it, you need to return to it again and again. We don’t deserve to be on the island completely or we wouldn’t be here.

So I remind you again. Any impulse on any plane, in any business, small or large, begins with a wave. From the difficulties, from the struggle with the difficulties, which are more intense than ever before the impulse. Problems and difficulties are getting worse than ever before. Everything we've been tormented before. All the flaws, all the blunders, all the fenks that more or less passed, we fought them one way or another. Everything before the impulse falls on one person, collective or individual. In such a strong form that you do not even have time to react, do not have time to gain breath. The only thing going through your head is that I’m falling! Tough. That's how the momentum starts. Terrible, formidable. I can't! Ideals are ideals, but when I see what is happening to me or around me, what problems – oh, you just have to endure them.

The main thing we need to understand before the year 2000 is that we cannot stop there. All of our fennies are coming out now. And they will get out hard to quickly decide. And be careful! If we are in this fight, so that they do not sweep us away, so that they do not exert such an influence on us that it will become even worse. That our affairs will get worse, our mood will get worse. If we are in the state of the crucified Christ, walking and talking, don’t touch me, I have a wave! If you do that, I'll fall! I'm barely holding on! Don't flash in front of me! I'm already out of balance! Don't offer me anything else! You see I'm barely holding on! Help me! Fall! Or it's bad! This, this is so terrible, so terrible! Let's do something! What is this? Let's start, impossible. And I'm sitting there resting because it's unreal, because it's so scary, so horrible, so panicky.

I beg you not to avoid the wave. Because the waves will not escape, the seniority showed. But react to it accordingly. Don't panic. Do not increase the severity, which is so large. Don't throw a tantrum. Do not give the ground to increase doubts, crises, sad-depressive states of the soul, glued to the place. Don’t let your hands down because of this. Do not give the ground to really see how far the dream is from reality, fall into a state of despair and hopelessness. Do not give the ground so that in battles they are in an internal spasm, unable to smile or joke anymore. See that there are other solutions, opportunities. Don’t let the wave really take over us.

Therefore, the impulse comes if the wave is sustained, but sustained naturally, with great humor and with great faith, which is hard now, but will not be later, it will pass. Not even by faith, but by the conviction that it is only necessary to go to the end of the tunnel, there is a little bit left, and the worst thing is to stop in this tunnel, where there is no light and no exit is visible. We need to run to the exit as quickly as we know and as we know how, then an impulse will be born.

Impulse will not come from my words today. It will be born on the basis that each of you, when you come to a real situation, is difficult. Like I told you, if he wants to punch in the eye and finds the strength to hug a person, and then tell him why he wanted to punch in the eye. And when they embrace one another, they say, Listen, that's such nonsense! Let's hold hands, let's talk, now there is no time, about what concerns us together in school, in the family, etc., what we can do together ... That's how impulse is born. When one way or another, in one state or another – the more severe it is, the more the ground for this is created – something is overcome in this difficult state, which in fact is not so obvious and less likely – mood, thoughts, crises, inertia. Step towards it. You start generating ideas, even if they're stupid, but you haven't generated them before. So there's a little bit of new stuff that hasn't happened before. Then this impulse not only fills the soul, not only relieves all fatigue, not only gives wings, but opens up real new opportunities. New ideas come to mind about exactly what can be done, and very specific, not abstract. And even further, dreams come. You see a perspective, you know where to go, and most importantly, you turn fate, you change fate, you change the course of events that would have gone in a completely different direction if you had kept your doubts, or you gave it in the eye, or you didn't come to a GS meeting or a manipulator, or you didn't go to this or that member. Fate would have gone in a completely different direction.

By the year 2000, we will be able to outline specific individual and collective actions. Where fate went in one direction and, as a rule, not there, or farther from the axis, the core. And if through them, through our approaches, our thoughts, our dreams, our ideals, our attempts, we can turn some things around in school, in our personal lives, inside ourselves. So that they should finally and irrevocably go in another direction, more upward and closer to the archetypes, closer to God, our task will be accomplished. This is what I wanted to say again when I said that repetition is not the mother of learning, but of wisdom.

And imagine: some abstract threshold of the year 2000, where we are waiting for invisible, unfamiliar faces. First upstairs. I'll talk about those downstairs later. With a smile. You know how parents wait for a child to learn to walk and say, "Here, here, here." And when he comes, he does not turn either to the right or to the left, does not fall, but comes, encloses him in his arms and says, "Well, you're good, and now I give you another task." That's what we would imagine. Although no one works for the award, imagine what the reward would be, the only one, although it is not demanded or asked. Someone is calling and saying, "Here, be careful, you're going to the left, you're going to the right, it's cold, it's hot." And you hear, and in your efforts you try to get closer. I'm not saying it gives the shapes we dreamed of. As the year 2000 passes, they say, “Thank God, let’s let the others go your way.” That's what I mean when I say open a new way, a new way.

And I, unfortunately or fortunately, can not advise you how to try to open a new page for each individual. Thankfully, I have students who are mature enough, mature enough, so that everyone knows what to do before the year 2000, at least try to change something, even if it does not work. Everyone has their flaws, which are already part of this wave, now, sometimes already up to the throat. I know about myself, so obviously we're communicating vessels, and you should have that, too, if I have one. Everyone has certain situations, certain thoughts, conclusions about which he knows that in fact they must turn in the other direction, but does not have the power to turn them. So I leave it to you and your conscience – and to God, to the guardian angels, to the teacher who will guide you to the year 2000, because that too is part of the momentum of unification. Although we will try to work on it.

Nor can I, and I do not have the right, even if I could, tell each of you from the point of view of the disciplinary path, which moments should be started in a new way. The student path is real in the school, which is called the New Acropolis, in the GS, in a manipulation with its name, with its direction, with its attitude. Because all the forms that you take in school are the forms that you try out, including apprenticeships. Each of you is quite honest, kind, pure, sincere in the depths of your heart, that he already knows – I am reading again, thoughts are already passing in parallel at each, where he would press, that in a new way to reconsider where to go in a new way. How united we are in this momentum, time will tell. I hope we're united.

But let us dream, literally dream and agree on things that concern the school itself. Where, as far as school is concerned, we need to go in a new way. Some things have already been generated, some things I ask you to supplement in the directions, in the manipulations, in the advice, because a lot needs to be finished now to see together where the school should start in a new way, break a new one, open a new page, so that we do not suck back.

Before I share it with you, one last thing. Much depends on how we will reach the year 2000, as a school, as a community, and what traces will remain behind us. I don't know what, but I know a lot. The fate of many people who are just coming to school in October. It depends on the fate of people who are not yet ready to come to school. They will come in a year, in two, in three. The fate of our children's children depends, in a hundred, two hundred, three hundred years. And believe me, this is not just a beautiful educational phrase.

And how we, I mean not only the Russian school, but the whole Acropolis, will pass through the doors of the year 2000 depends in some sense the calmness in quotation marks of those at the top who are responsible for us. As an Acropolis, we were given a task. The peace of mind of a teacher who knows there is a lot on his students. And that his students have to get to that much themselves. The calmness of a teacher who says to some of his teachers: “It’s not too early, I convince you, not too early! or else the people will completely disappear! let’s try! I guarantee there are good people, they can, they have power!” And who will come before them after 2000 and say either "you know, you were right" or "see, it was worth it!"

Much is tied to this momentum, both at the bottom and at the top, a large chain that has no end either at the bottom or at the top. We are small, and thank God that we do not understand anything and that we are not told anything. But at the moment, it has not sounded for a long time, these little ones – I mean not only the Russian school, but the whole Acropolis – are really small, we are not initiated, the fate of the ring depends, which will or will not be thrown into the abyss of fate.

Believe me, I’m telling you much more than I told the leaders at the meeting. And even, please, don't try to understand, don't try to catch what I mean by that. I may not know myself. Frodo is, was and will be Frodo. If he had failed to throw the ring into the abyss of fate, he would not have been Frodo. There wouldn't be much.

What is joyful is hopeful and comforting in the moment, except that thank God we know nothing. That the Acropolis Frodos don't need anything so terrible. Otherwise, getting to the abyss of fate would be much more difficult. That in the real history of the Lord of the Rings, many great, beautiful, unknown to us by their victim tried to distract from Frodo various dangers. God knows they are harder than us. Frodo is a real, little mouse from a turnip tale, has a real mission. While the rest of us are really fighting, he's small, they don't pay attention to him. Hiding, running, overcoming, punching, experiencing some states, running to the goal. So all I'm telling you today is to give you a boost. Not only for the new academic year, but fortunately or unfortunately, for the new century and for the new millennium. The small victories we have talked about today that will be needed will be Frodo’s victories in the great battle of the great brotherhood of the rings. Which we have no idea about. And we won't have, I think, until the second, third, fourth, fifth of our lives. When it becomes clear that the danger has passed.

And so, please, remembering the middle, the beginning and the end of our summer experience, once again. There are a lot of things that we consider problems that are actually stupid. There are a lot of people that we think are problems because we haven’t really figured out the stupidities inside ourselves. There are many cases that we find problematic because we have not yet realized the need for them to be done. I beg you not to make life difficult for yourself, for others, for your bosses or for me. Neither Hal, nor Delia, nor those who are watching us. Please!

You and I have many flaws. But we have one virtue: we all have a good heart. We are not vindictive, that is, we should not be. We do not cling to this or that offense. We can forgive. We can believe. If we can inspire someone who may be weaker than us at the moment, we will find a way. We can listen. And we know how to break ourselves if they need it!

And from my point of view, as a little teacher now. I don't know what they're going to try. And I'll try you out. If after all that was said today, after all that was said in the experience of the GS, which many have already forgotten. We don’t have a mind, what do we do? We don’t have the willpower we need. But there is a great love that can give everything else. Big heart. Great kindness. Big opportunity. Although if we go in this old way, then remember, this link in the chain will no longer be a link! After the year 2000, if not before. If I see that it really destroys everyone else. So this is a huge request. May the goodness, the depth, the subtlety, the dream, the love, the meaning of all our lives for which we were born, all our human follies, doubts, crises, idiocy, which at the moment can interfere with them, prevail. Failure to make an effort in this says a lot!

Going forward, you need to help support each other, support the idea as possible. Generate – let it be stupid, idiotic, and support – as sincere as possible. We can do it, what can we do? There is nothing so terrible and terrible that can kill a person with kindness, understanding, patience. And so, of a number of things in which this impulse will have to manifest, I will talk about the temple.

The first honor of the knights: Judge not, lest you be judged. We will be judged in the year 2000, so let us dream together what we need to break through, what will be the concrete footprints by which this momentum will be judged.

The first is the temple. It must be completed by December 21, 1999. If we don’t finish it, it means that some of the moments I talked about today have failed. And just at the temple is a great opportunity for these moments to manifest. I was hoping. The problem now is that the deadlines are slack, as usual. Still living the old way. And real, despite having been given a boost 10,000 times before the summer in meetings. I begged you guys to prioritize the temple without explaining this. We already know. And if we build it as we have built so far, we still have work for a year. The task now is to perform miracles. Thanks to new approaches, momentum, etc. In all the things that have tormented us before, because of which we again pass all the deadlines. Make it before December 21. Reflect all the power we pour out in any other place. The problem is real in the temple. Though I thought it was a saint of saints, it wouldn't reflect. There was definitely the first problem.

\[...\] And on the other hand, by your efforts, by your efforts, to bring about what now seems only a model. I want it to be real. And our task is through these trials, in two months, to pass the school of apprenticeship in small. In order to deserve it to be big, to contribute. Moreover, the year 2000 is the moment of the exam, where the formal names, one or another, are no longer counted. Either we are GS, with all the advantages and disadvantages, or we are not, each of us is individual. I hope that collectively we are GS. That should be the test.

So what form will it take? Once a week, except for some Saturdays, when we will be involved in the first round of interviews and Delia's arrival. Once a week on Saturdays at 11:00 a.m., the WS meets. In order to study with me for an hour and a half on the specific steps that concern us. And at this meeting, through the form we're going to tell you, get the assignment. In the temple, first of all, or in parallel priority places related to the needs of the school. At which theoretical moments of the stages he will show in practice. That is, from my point of view, on which we will test and test each of you. What specific points you will be told during the meeting. What specific tasks will be given to you. The criteria by which I will look at the results, let me not share them until 2000. Then yes, and maybe not, depending on how it goes. Until the next GS meeting, this week will be a test for the level we talked about. At the next GS meeting, we get a new stage and new tests. Until December 21, when the temple is to be opened.

Since it is very important for me that the results, the elementary results of these tests are known not only by me and not only by the chief of the logos or the corresponding manipulation, and since it is very important for me that, as well as working with candidates, you know the results of elementary tests, a peculiar form of summing up the results of the week is introduced. Each manipula will start for the duration of the tests, as we jokingly called it, inspired by “Pilgrim”, an onboard diary – a notebook, where at the end of the week, before the start of the meeting, the manipula will sum up the moments passed and tasks. More specific forms later, now only key points. From 11.00 to 11.30 on Saturday, the manipulation is promptly assembled, 30 minutes discusses the results of the past week in terms of tests. During the conversation, key moments are recorded, and at the end of the meeting, the chief of the manipulation writes down the results. Is the principle clear? That Saturday was just the impetus, the beginning of the tests on the stage, which will continue all week.
