Why don't we teach esoteric more?

Jorge Angel Livraga

Article from Bastion Bulletin No. 81, translated from Spanish in the New Acropolis

This question is often heard, especially from our new members. And the fact that we are very careful in the classes of the first, preparatory, cycle, many are confused and discouraged.

So, in order. The preparatory stage is designed to give the most general information about what the New Acropolis is, and, at the same time, so that the listeners feel and experience us, and we, in turn, can look at them, in order to determine how deep and serious their interest in a certain range of issues is and whether they are able to climb the steps leading to Wisdom, the cherished goal of every philosopher.

I am well aware that we could attract many more young people by presenting them with the original themes of the lectures in a way that is more consistent with their craving for the mysterious. But the danger that would arise would be too great. In most cases, such a craving is a tangle of spontaneous, unconscious desires, and therefore a direct presentation of the esoteric part without prior acquaintance with the necessary exoteric knowledge could turn many young people into sectarians and fanatics, instead of making them real philosophers-Acropolis. Therefore, in the first stage, you just need some kind of filters. Without them, beginners would become too disconnected from the world of everyday life, and therefore for some of them returning to this world without the necessary ideological support and spiritual impulse would be especially painful. History teaches us that it is necessary, without falling into ridiculous elitism, to produce a kind of spiritual filtering, to show the ability to distinguish the true from the false, in order to bring order and harmony to the lives of those who place their hopes on us.

Plato left us a statement that was very poorly understood and is still misinterpreted by almost everyone who addresses him, including university researchers. In the words of one of the characters of his Dialogues, Socrates, the philosopher said: “The mob will never become a philosopher.” Due to the inaccuracy of the Greek translation and the peculiarities of our cultural and social experience, it seems at first glance that this is an unjustifiably cruel statement worthy of a tyrant. What Master really meant was to stop being a mob to become a philosopher. In other words, Plato asserted that philosophical faculties are inherent in every person from birth, and in order for them to manifest themselves, it is necessary to correct the defects of education, to help a person get rid of bad habits and inclinations, and to promote the necessary change in everyone, a turn to virtue and to everything that is required by the true Seeker of Truth. So let the notion that anyone who has merely taken an interest in the New Acropolis at once acquire the practical possibility of immediate contact with the Essence of Things, with the Mystery which is Mysticism in action, remain in the realm of fruitless utopias. Neither posters, booklets, nor even lectures and readings alone will open up such an opportunity.

As to the question of why we do not teach esotericism more, not only to those who have only recently joined us, but also to those who have been members of our Movement for several years, we are guided by considerations similar to those above. If the vessel is filled with dirt and sewage, then before pouring clean drinking water into it, it should be emptyed and thoroughly washed. The human persona is the same vessel. No man can, in just a few years, practice once or twice a week, acquire the inner purity sufficient to receive the Wisdom which for thousands of years, like the drops of morning dew, has accumulated in the sacred cup of the White Lotus Flower of Esoteric Knowledge. The pearl in the Lotus Flower, of which you have all heard, cannot be taken with unclean hands, nor can it be seen with a gaze obscured by carnal images and visions. Persistent work and teaching are like fragrant soap and clean water. Only they can cleanse their hands of the sticky touch of greed and earthly passions, and their eyes from the veil that covers them.

We need cleansing.

It is necessary to get rid of the animal and get as much human as possible, facing the Divine.

Fatigue and reason must tame the flesh, and active participation in the realization of the Ideal must tame the passions. It is necessary that the mind should abandon fantasies and unrealizable aspirations, become more whole. Destroy the destroyer of all that is real!

You are too small, you are quite a child, and therefore, according to a thousand-year-old custom, we measure you drop by drop the potent means - Esoteric Knowledge. We only wish you well, and therefore it is better for us that you should leave us than perish by taking too much. We do not dare to burden our conscience by causing you to perish physically, mentally and spiritually.

No improvisation. We know exactly what you need, when, how and in what quantities.

The new Acropolis will not allow itself the dilettantism so ordinary and habitual in many centers that declare themselves “esoteric,” which make their members illusionists, bringing them to such a state of fantasy that they are ready to see ghosts everywhere, even in a plate of soup. They think of themselves as “Avatars,” they practice internal and external meditative techniques unrelated to Truth and Reality, they “raise” the Kundalini, choosing as the basis for this strange forms of sexual intercourse and foolishly and ineptly copied symbolic images of the Tibetan Mandalas. These misguided are innocent victims of human stupidity and vanity.

All the experts and connoisseurs of esotericism (not the intellectuals who spread about esotericism, but who really deal with it and practice it), from H.P. Blavatsky to Eliphas Levi, point out the need to comprehend the Secret gradually, so that the ground on which you step does not seem shaky, knowing exactly where to take the next step. At the same time, you need to get rid of selfish aspirations, laziness, voluptuousness and gluttony. The realization of the great Mysteries requires time, work, complete dedication and unselfishness. It is necessary to devote oneself entirely to the service of the Ideal, to free oneself from all distortions and deformations of the external world, from prejudices and irrational fears. And the impact of a biological robot made of bone and flesh, called a "body," should not be excessive.

So we do not teach esotericism more simply because we cannot and should not. The right rhythm is one of the necessary conditions for the attainment of Harmony, in which what is called “esoteric” and “exoteric” are much more closely related than is commonly believed. Happy are those of us who have Plans, Principles, and Goals, who know the Rhythm and the Possibilities. Who has teachers and followers? He who serves the Ideal, ancient as the stars. Or maybe even before that... An ideal that will shine when those stars go out.
