# Legenids and myths from New Acropolis.

Xenia Kirilova

Yekaterinburg, 2007

The public's attention has been increasingly attracted by a phenomenon like "The Classical Philosopher School" by New Acropolis. "As we speak as cultural enlightenment, this organization has a lot of followers among fairly educated people, which is not surprising. The New Acropolis magazine" Man Without Borders "saves photos of history and culture, quotes of known thinkers and poets, and during the lectures of philosophy" the scene, "coursing speeches about compassion, good, ideal and tolerance. The organization is actively working with children's institutions, and there are exotic topics and offers young people who are looking for themselves, all kinds of creative self-actualization. Leaders and members of the New Acropolis are perfectly friendly and welcome, often open doors to some of the top-notch mustaches and libraries." New Acropolis "proclaims its goals:

1.  The union of people is based on the ideal of general brotherhood regardless of their belief, race and social belonging.
    
2.  Plotting in the world with comparative study, different kinds of art, philosophical and religious systems.
    
3.  To help each person find harmony with Nature by developing their internal potential and recognizing the laws of life (using capital letters in the word Nature has a place in the official Statute of this organization. - K.
    

So what is "New Acropolis"?

After talking to the leadership of the organization and learning its public programming literature, this portrait of this organization is shown:

1.  "New Acropolis" does not think to be any single system of views of truth. His job is to introduce audience-makers with all kinds of views and thoughts, without prioritization to the world's worldview. He combines people not based on loyalty in some kind of religious position, but in the question of charity.
    
2.  The new Acropolis is the ultimate tolerance. He respects all views, thoughts and religion, assuming they're equal. He doesn't prefer any religion. And there's no identity, and they think it's unconventional.
    
3.  So there's no study in the New Acropolis, and there's no teaching, so there's a set of religious doctrines recognized by all of its members. As he points to his expert at 06.12.06, which was done in the request of the "New Acropolis," Doctor of Philosophilus E. Elbecan, an organization that deals with the spread of knowledge, not faith, and "there are people of different delicate belonging or unbelieving." Still, there can't be secret learning in New Orleans.
    
4.  And it turns out that the process of reading lectures itself is seen as a simple transfer of some information, which in the subject of lectures can be different, often mutually exclusive points on the same question.
    
5.  All the facts are rendered absolutely true because the main purpose of the lectures is to increase the education of the students.
    
6.  After listening to the lecture course, a student can choose a single belief system on its own. Under self-determination, there's no choice to be found, including psychological pressure. Neither the lecture structure nor the behavior of the clitoris do anything in the mind of the listener, and do not do it using manipulation to some predefined outcome.
    
7.  Being to the world is absolutely positive, because "New Acropolis" is coming from that.
    
8.  So, you can't apply the word totalitarian sex to New Fields.
    

If you take all the overrated positions above the truth, it really seems like an absolutely unfounded position of sectors that are strongly referred to as "New Acropolis" a destructible cult. I suggest, without having to have the need of a discussion, just to match the pieces with the New Acropolis inside and check them.

1.  Is there any belief system true? The wrong answer to this is in the New Wizard article of Jorah Angel Lieiger, about the Consel, from September 1981. (Next, "About Tralistic"), 1.5. Six sections for teachers, "The Publisher must be clear and clear in their explanations. It's not enough to know the truth, you need to be able to explain it, to communicate, and if necessary, to prove it. Remember, young people who come to School are often disappointed in their lives looking for new ways to do their ideas. It is not possible to distort the Passion only out of fear to hurt the feeling particularly hurtful, because our students came to us for finding the truth of the silusy and irresistible, not for the vague rhetoric that no one explains anything." In the "For Students" section, it also says, "Shake your head off to the Tower, they have John's hidden."

So in the New Acropolis, there's obviously a certain system of views that are defined as absolute truth, more than that, it's named Vu. The leaders of the sect are saying that there is no teaching in New Acropolis, in light that seems like a single lie. In fact, according to the internal directive of the organization, the litors ("instructors") need not only a celebration of believing in the proposed doctrine, but also to deliver it to public lectures using them only in order to fulfill the listening of the leaders of the organization.

As an illustration, we'll be able to extract from the leadership of the Russian New Acropolis, the Sikiekithing from the "02.02.97" instrument. It's not what it is, it's telling the point. The key thing. The idea he should pass is not him. And based on the principle of eumatism, if you think about the Law of Justice, the instructor should first pass the concept, the idea, the archetype of the organism that he is part of. Main archetypes, ideas, moments of what we call the Acropolis ideology. This is the first point. So the first task we have in all our meetings, in our lectures, in our individual interviews, as the voice of silence, or "or agree, you have your soul with..." Did you reconcile your assumptions, the key moments with your heart, the doctrine and the philosophy of the Acropolis? And here, as for the law, in terms of the facilitator, there are no 10,000 doctrines. There are no 10,000 different understanding of the doctrine. There are 10,000 different forms in which ideas are taught. And so in this context, the first and main task isn't just the facilitator, but the manager, we're talking in the context of the lecture now -- not to step away, not to distort, not to distort. Do not give their free interpretation, which have no soil, already confirmed, in terms of the very philosophy of the Acropolis, either the other assumptions, the Kells, the Classical, the Blavatians, me, etc. "(here and so on: bold font.) And then," Well, to make it easier for you, and to give you what we officially call the Akrola ideology, the first question we're going to ask is, how would HAL do? "

And by adapting to the formal hardware of sectors, we have some sort of cult knowledge, which is a universal method, that the Apapites can achieve happiness, unity with God, perfection, find meaning of life, etc. Now, if you compare these sayings with the first position of the "New Fields" statement, you have a visual deception on verbal, which is the brightest and the typical sign of totalitarian sex. In fact, students come to see all sorts of philosophical concepts, but not at all with the idea of the new "New Acropolis" by Jorge Angel Leaugi, which they're trying to get under the appearance of lectures.

2.  Is there a seisrized personality, or is there any view that is found to be indispensable? To answer this question, again, I'm going to go to the instrument meeting, "There are 7 laws..." and that means the first moment to realize that this is the moment that you and I are carrying a piece of Hash. I'm not saying mine. Now we're talking, the main and main link that binds us, let's say, to the world of Archakind. We talked about what actually read a good lecture, having a good meeting, a small or large one, which means making it look like there was... The ideal model is to imagine that you give your thoughts your examples, your color... When I'm from the point of view of the Eulogy National lecture, I ask myself a question of how I would explain this to HAL... In order to make it easier for you and for us to pass what we officially call the Acropolis ideology, the first question we'll ask is, how would HAL do that? And I assure you, for example, especially the formal meetings, always when I sit down and read a bunch of stuff, I always ask myself the first question, and what would HAL say? This is for me... "

It's like, "For such situations, you need a deeper tranquility of soul. The souls that are based on the Master. It's the only thing a person can lean on, the rest of it has to do alone. I'm telling you this, and from my 20s, the lecture reading experience. And every time I've told you this 10,000 times in all the facilitators, before the important urges are nervous, but always calm down the same idea -- how would HAL do? And if I can't even think of it, if I can't panic to it, there's an automatic mechanism -- a word, a concept of HAL. That's it. Let's go. Even as he said, no matter what he said, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This is from the point of view of the Wall, the Conjunction, back to the roof, you have to have a soul for every tool. You have one other little gap between me, Delia. I have Delia. But what's going on here in the gallery is something special. And then it will be calm that our doctrine will not be distorted. And then we shall be calm, that we shall not fall back from the path, and that we shall not allow liberty that are bound, most likely, with the moments of our person than with the real soul."

In the New Acropolis, there is no disagreement with the Serbians, and he himself is recognized as "the great teacher of mankind," an ideal and unbelieving demonstration. The ideal illustration of this tag is a phrase from "Living Word" from 17.02.96. (Next, "Living Word"), addressed leaders: "Here's an example of Hea, a great Hela, who never lied, and never even lied about the arrival of Jordan in Zagreb, although it never happened." So there are two mutually exclusive statements that are completely incompatible in terms of common logic, but are completely consistent with each other within the cult logic. There's no money left, so he didn't lie, even to say what he never had in the world. We have a modified value system, which is the belief that any means can be viable and justified to achieve the goal. You can trick a person to achieve what he wants without even recognizing that fact of lying. In general, the relationship of actors to the great Helu is under the notion of humorism -- a cult of charismatic leader. Guru is a superhuman, whose will need to obey quickly and undeniably, causing the thinking to fail. According to the ideal cult, the order of the guru is the undeniable will of God himself. The presence of such a guru (man or group of people) is also an inherent sign of totalitarian sex.

3.  What exactly is the New Acropolis teaching and how secret it is? The general characteristics of the New Acropolis study that is being replicated in many of the textbooks for the unconventional religious subject and figures on most Internet sites:

"New Acropolis" can be characterized as the Sincoronic cult, pagan totalitarian sex that uses the cover of the papysogoidal shares.

In addition to the official lectures and charity events, New Acropolis has a secret teaching, available only in "dedication," which comes from students and participants in culinary activities. Sex learning is based on the work of Liugi's Golden axe and the Labinite Paisra, which comes from a collection called The Manager Handbook. The prequetine cult combines elements of theopomines and a series of pagan cultures (mostly ancient Greek) cultures. The new Acropolis takes its Apapses to embrace the laws of microcosium and macro through studying education: astrology, numerology, humanism. A special emphasis is done in study of pagan mythology, rituals and rituals. In the minds of people, people are distorted by traditional religious and cultural values, producing inhealthy interest in magic and cultural practice. A special meaning is provided to establish communication with parallel worlds. We believe in the recarnation and the rapid tide of the earth as the Common Era. The primary task of sex is to create from a person of superhuman, a representative of the new race's sixth race, to people who are essentially predicting racial discrimination and the ideology of superiority.

The New Agriculture Creator was the late Argentinian professor of Italian origin from Jorge Angel Leading (1930 - 1991), who, under the cover of spreading his ideas of theopophobia, created a branch of the World Wide Web, which penetrated from the late 1980s and Russia. In "The Leap Manager's Handbook," says, "Every living creature with most or less developed abilities, greedy to power. Power is the same instinct of the soul as self-preservation -- the instinct of the body... Whoever feels the power of being a leader shouldn't love others... The manager, choosing something once, needs to be asked, despite spending, in the shortest terms... You have to pull out everything that makes it complex."

Ultrád's view of the "New Acropol" has in his structure a secret security system that uses the secret rituals and the fascist symbolism. One of the leaders of the Security Corps connected the discovery of a new stage in the history of the organization -- the stage of active action. In the ballot that appears to be the most trusted person of Schwartz Genda-Mark Mussa, he said, "We know that we are a product of an organization that grows into an enormous army, a huge force."

Let's do a couple of quotes that represent specific elements of the New Acropolis. In particular, the figures from the speech given by Olena Squiot for the "Living Forces" (HS, internal core of organization) at the summer stage in 1999 on the VCs, the concept and the mission of New Acropolis (next: "The Summer Statue"):

"The Hells are clearly saying that the Acropoli task is actually retrying to give the impulse to the sixth racial race. Our job with you is to give the impulse to the fifth race."

"The first thing we need to understand is that Acropola is not just a school. That Acropolis is based on a pulse. Black from millions, hundreds of thousands of impulses that lasted since the great Bill Lands were founded and the world of people came down high entities, Vladists and Prometheus. \[...\] And now, even though we're not talking about this group, it doesn't look like we're Maronese and so on, but in the 20th century, the only channel to the teachers is the Acropolis. Just like in the 19th century, there was a theoretical society. This is our family. The only channel and the only one who's allowed to take a test to earn an esoteric school is the Acropolis. And if someone from 4-5 billion people living on Earth wants to get into the bridge, they have to go to the Acropolis. And go through all the steps, starting with a white program, the first cycle, and get to the ISS. Because in order for someone in the next life to dream at all about cooking, the first step he's got to earn is ZC. And JS is that link in the chain that Tesufoff was missing."

"College School is a great power. This is the light that we have to become, this is what it is. \[...\] It gives the power of all the mission to bear and not be called by the June failure, as it was with the Theodopia society immediately after the death of the ECB. We've already left, we're still holding. I'm sorry, but this is great progress, it hasn't happened in history. Because there's Delia. And then what? We need to keep creating, or a piece of mission. The heart of the sixth race will wait again for God to know how much. People are going to be smoking in their chaos again, discomfort, without criteria, without much..."

So, "New Acropolis" is a religious organization who declared itself the only possible channel to the high-power. Siquik, every esoteric school in the country has been sent to the hierarchy of mahashum to prepare for mankind to enter a higher race. Assumption of the sixth race "directly goes to the belvativa teachings, the following are considered the actors. However, despite all the respect of the actors to Blanvatsk, HUL thought even her mission was unsuccessful, and the impulse to mention the death of the ECB. So the challenge is to preserve the pulse and do the same thing that was unable to do any other organization in human history. There is a confirmation of this in the audio record as well.

... "They started off with the ornamental apse, and they talked about how HAL got the job -- to do everything he can to make the school contribute to the impulse of six subraces five races. Do what you can. And he got this assignment very specifically... To contribute to the birth of 6 opposites of the fifth race... And when we talked about this, we remembered that almost all of the actors' schools in this difficult work continued to work for her. Because each of them, including us, got a task to develop a model of something within a general impulse. Everyone is born, breaks the way, finds forms for one part of the generic mosaic, which is known only by Helu, Delia and Jove. We can't understand it."

Moreover, "New Acropolis" says that there is a recarnation of all the ancient esoteric schools and sex, meaning their members and leaders. So, with the easy hands of Hena, all the thinkers and philosophers of the elders fall into the "actors" series! Andrier Andriy Kurev calls this phenomenon "missionary among the dead," "This strange mannerist is generally theophime; they scrolled through world history pages in order for more visible historical figures to end up in their adopts and worshippers. As the Mormons gather into their archives information about all the submissive, so that they can cross after them, and that's the same thing as turning everyone into Mormon, and the theophoses also share the fatal" initiation "to anyone, not worrying a little about whether or not they want to be amongst the theophoses. But the dead don't answer." \[1\]

Here are examples of similar practices.

"You can say that the Acropolis has been known for many thousand years," in fact intersected with the same high souls, the great powers, the same Hale, called the other, Delia, and that it's one of our regressions. "

"We're the fives." All of their studies, all of their knowledge, all of their memories, all of its protection and protection of the big things in HAL and through Hell we brought into this world, in this age of Fas, from Egypt... that's when teachers and hierarchy were designed to try to give momentum to the sixth subrace of the fifth race. The reason in the different era and in different generations, through different spiritual families or festivals, but the base was called the fourth rays, or the family of the philanthropist, where we belong to... "

"Europe had to become a cradle of the next racial race. It was so born by the famous Anax that we belong to. Those with our NA logo, they know perfectly well that Anax has these letters."

"Our family is chosen as a mission medium. The great masters of this impulse are chosen; they are chosen beside the great authorities; they are chosen by the students; and they are chosen small ants."

"Don't you wonder why we're teaching them close? Why is it that while we're reading the stand like we're listening to Helium? When we read Mark Aurelius like we're listening to Helium? Or do we read Socrates, Plato, and read ancient Egyptian writings? It's all live in us, and we're not reading it, but we remember... One of Ankls, the last major fruit was Alexander, the neoplatonic school. And like Hells said, when we met with him a long time ago, understand, I do not boast, but there were kings and priests and philosophers and teachers and ladies and knights and martyrs... Mark Aurelius is our man... The Renaissance, George Bruno, is us... But this is a man who did indeed, on the rubies of 16 and 17th centuries (living in the same way, imagine, at the same period of the century as we did), creating literally an Acropolis without calling it the Acropolis. In the Acropolis, there's this assumption that Jordan Bruno was one of the empowerment of Sri Rama's teacher, the teacher of Hells."

The only person for whom New Acropolis makes an exception is that the masons are not us, and the Neanderthals are not us, but that was also the impulse of the hierarchy. It's a fraternity, it's not us, but ours, it's ours. "And it's probably explained this because some of the masons survived, and by our days, and could claim their principles of disagreement with members of the nachina.

Sikiah and the next task of his organization is prozilitism, which is the most intellectual developed part of society, "If we don't draw the attention of the highest minds and we spin around the four walls, we can think that our mission is not done. It's very important that we remember it."

That's what it's referring to in terms of "secret learning," but not belief in reincarnation, how he tries to convince us of her expert, Mrs. Elquan. It's fair to say that the theory of rediscovery, the materiality of thought, the laws of carmas and dhars and other positions of cult teachings of PST (classic philosophical schools) are found pretty quickly, in a few lectures (i. e., this part of teaching is not). But again, it should be noted that this information is given as objective information within the "comparative study of religion." The audience does not report that the position data is an option which is broadcast as true in the last division and is not questioned.

Because things are not knowledge, but religious beliefs that come out of the New Acropolis are, in particular, extract from "instrumental meetings" by telling seven laws... "" "Let's try with you at least to keep you in the head of our law. I remind you of the plans. We start at the top and we go down.

For the Plan of Atma, the Law of Justice.

Then, the Enlightenment law or sanctification.

Manas's plan is the Law of Differences.

And then we have an organization, which is lower brain.

The Law of Psychological Law is Avilal, a mental.

The law of activity, operations, ashes, energy.

And the last one, all of it's remembered, is the Law of timidity, cycles, physical design.

What do you think we could use them to be an instructor, a model for the facilitator?

If you remember, the Justice Law is the principle that leads everyone to one universal destiny through the path of evolution. As they said, if he asks how many of you, you say, "One." They said that he has an awareness of attachment to the organism, small or larger, realizing that we are part of something larger. And they said that this is related to the realization of the chain, which is the principle of the eumatism or the transfer of fire that the entire universe was created. There's the original Absolute, first fire. He transmits his fire to the next, the second is giving birth to the third one, giving his fire. "

"Living word" (the material of thought and word): "This is the most beautiful and yet at the moment of development the 5th race is the only form through which the clear principle of will appears outside... In order to make this clear, I'm reminding you one moment from a lecture on the 6th race. When Blaavatist explains that there will be times when sexual difference will not be, when people are going to get to a kind of" androgen "and when any form of reproduction starting from physical is going to be done through the interaction of the thought -- the word... And when Blaavatist explains that this is how children will be born, so no longer physical or other work -- I want to create -- thought, said in the right form and form are already born under the influence of my words. And this is called the" Holy Word "principle in orator art. And you have to understand that by reading a lecture -- to be -- someday, sometimes when you're not aware of it, our word has the power to do: said -- the process is already happening. If you say wrong, then according to that, it's not that, and according to the interaction with the law of Kara, which has its plans for creation, or we agree with them, or if we don't get into the point, there's a sanction."

What about how the secret teachings of "New Acropolis" are, it's appropriate to present a passage from the article of Jorge Angel Leawards, "why don't we learn an esoteric in a larger degree?" Directly a contributions from the esoteric part without a previous review of the necessary exotic knowledge could transform many young people into sequins and fanatics instead of making them a true philosopher-acronym. So at first stage, you just need specific filters. Without them, beginners would be too torn off from the world of everyday... "

"So let's imagine that anyone who has just been interested in New Orleans will immediately get a practical opportunity to contact the Justice of Ray, with the secret, which is the Mistique in action, will remain in the kingdom of the endless utopia. No tears, no buzites, no lecture, and read by itself, will not open that opportunity."

"What about the question of why we don't train esoteric in greater ways, and not only those who recently joined us, but also those who over the course of a few years are members of our Rugo, so here we are in terms of thinking about things that are higher... No man can only do once or twice a week, acquire internal purity, sufficient to perceive Muydrith, which for millennia, just like a drop of morning dew, was stored in the sacred cup of White Lotus Ezovet."

So Liir explains his reluctantly to inform the laws of the truth about the true teaching created by organization that it cannot be accepted and, more, will result in consequences. Let us conclude that this is just an excuse. The fact that organizations have knowledge that they can turn many young people into sequins and fanatics and tear people apart from everyday world seems to be a little bit unconcerned about "great HSL." Also, the "sex and fanatic" young people still become and from everyday to day-to-day-to-day-to-day-to-day-to-day-to-day-to-day-to-day-to-day, what makes the fact of the organization:

"You're too young, you're a very small child, and so we, according to a thousand years-old tradition, we mark you with a powerful means of Ezothelial Knowledge... No improvisation. We know perfectly well what you need when, as in what quantities... All the experts and experts of the esoteric (not intellectuals, who spread information about esoteric information, but those who really do work on it and practice it), from the E.P. B.C. Blanvatates to Eliza Levi, indicate that they need to obtain the secret gradually."

"The revelations of the great mysteries require time, labor, full of self-reliance and recklessness. You have to give yourself the service of the ideal."

Especially the interesting last quote. So the New Acropolis expert has to fully dedicate itself to the service of the ideal, not knowing what it is! It's pretty clear that there's no conscious choice here, because a person has no idea what it is that he chooses and spends his time, his power, and sometimes his whole life. Even after learning over time, some of the positions that are imposed by him, he has no way to test them as truth, because he gets the knowledge of an unobjective source -- from people who are fanously trusted in them. So, in this case, the default esoteric gap. His idea is that when you put it into sex, when you get it, people never tell you about the real meaning of sex, what happens next. \[2\] As a result, the person who was invited to one organization is described in a completely different organization. Simply say, the organization turns out to be not what it looked like at first. And the presence of this break is also related to the tones of the totalitarian sex. It should be noted that there's a lot more esoteric separation in the New Acropolis than there are other sexes.

4.  What is the process of reading lectures for members of the organization? As we said by 5.1, the KSOS lecture is the first way to address the acronym doctrine, rather than just broadcast information. The goal of this training was formulated in the article "About the Sanctuary," followed by 7.7 section for teachers, "The Toolbox actors should always remain at their height and feel like a channel of history. We've come to change the world, not to be another one of the schools that meditates about esoteric. Ezototeric and other kinds of things are just part of the acronym struggle to inspire students."

Moreover, the process of teaching itself is according to the New Acropolis, a mystical and sacred nature:

"Living word": "The man who has art to work through the word is a mag. And no matter how small, lecture, verse, evening, little group should be one form of magical or mystical action."

"There are seven laws..." Because in this context the instructor becomes really a priest and a mag, and not a wise or a maga, nor a half priest.... Then the sacraments of the famous Enlightenment Law from the point of view, because when the facilitator, reading the lecture, passes power, it awakens in people of elementary power, which will keep them for a period of time. This is a moment of love-intuition, a moment of blessing. If the real great ones bless when they pass the true, real, inner power, then the instructor has a sacred word. "

"Living word" is the moment of Misery to begin the lecture, when you are offended, invariably enforcing sacred images, those who inspire you. And for the last time before the fight, and every lecture is a new battle, ask the blessings, one more at the teacher's feet.

It's about the vault, it's about four chapters for teachers, "Never forget that teaching is sacred, but the lecture room is sacred space." So in terms of the actors themselves, even reading lectures is not a secular event, but also a magical ritual act.

5.  How much does the actual information that fits in the lecture? To answer this question, you have to go back to the previous two modified value system. We need to give an entire piece of "Living Words," because it's very typical of all totalitarian sex:

(Laughter) And as you think, you'd put a glue in the hahle for what he did when he was reading "Jordan Bruno," clearly invented before the public to hear some members of the JS that the lecture served that Jordan was in Zagreb and founded a school called "Phoenix" (then JS was called "Phoenix") and that was the first spiritual impulse in Eastern Europe. But he said so, that those who understood his words saw not Jordan Bruno, saw him, and even believed -- maybe it was, although we know that there wasn't. It's relatively in time and space, and the facts that didn't happen in reality may have happened on other plans. So there are things that logic cannot accept, but something inside of us -- this is called the moments of sacred inspiration in the lecture -- forces us to tell. Here's an example of a great gallery, who never lied, and was not even lying to talk about Jordan's arrival in Zagreb, although it never happened. And she said, "I really wanted him to come, but he didn't come."

So, in the New Acropolis, not only have the privilege of lying, but the facilitators are directly calling lies in the field of historical facts, calling it "sacred inspiration." As a result of this audience, who wants to increase his education and learn some specific historical events and facts, instead, he has to take on the faith of the fantasy of Lyoni or other "CCA teachers," the goal is only his own habitation in cult sex.

6.  Is there any ways that people can control consciousness? This is one of the most important questions that happens when you take one or another organization to the totalitarian sex. We also have to remember that within the New Area, there are two levels of initiation: classic philosophy school, which includes theoretical and practical cycles, and the inner core of the organization, named "Living Power"; the corresponding phase of learning is called "School of Science." And so, the way that consciousness control works on different levels is different.

On the New Acropolis website, the "New Acropolis" and the address of no- acropocl.info (next - No- acropocl.info), in the "consciousness control" and "Conservation" sections of consciousness-control, "in detailed ways of controlling consciousness and manipulation that are applied to the" Living Forces "levels. I want to stop at the techniques that have room at the SCA level. The thing is, we have a detailed instruction, where they learn how to inspire, consciousness control and hypnotic techniques.

The New Acropolis has a very developed control of emotion, and it shows up in two forms:

1.  An invasive conquest of trust, when the facilitator is actively wanting to fall in the audience, so that the audience needs it, and they can't imagine life without it. The methods can be used in any way: both the banal bombardment of love and other manipulative techniques. As usual in totalitarian sections, the goal justifies the means:

"There are seven laws..." Create in the beginning of the lecture, so-called invisible mustache, which allows you to then prove or meet the end. Your job in this context is that you have to be human, especially if you work with them for a long time as an instructor, to become a native and intimate person. Although they may not speak to you at all, because they don't come to you in big lectures. Although you may not have any sort of verbal communication with them or very little communication. But you have to do everything you can to become an authority to them, not even an authority, but a native, your own person. And it doesn't just mean breaking the original ice, but building a lecture, and especially the first part of the meeting, or the first meeting, if you keep leading it all the time, so that you're loved... And be careful to have the goodness of people... "

From a moral point of view, you can see the apparent morality of this position: don't love your students, but bring them to love in whatever way you can to create in the Apapti completely addiction to yourself.

2.  Queries of certain emotions with a technique that is traditionally referred to as Exonic hypnosis:

"There are seven laws..." "through emotion you must summon the devotion of school, dreams, Master, the status of loyalty to the Beautiful. And so they say, in lecture, in class, but it's also a higher class skill, it's useful to consciously plan for these moments of so-called emotional shocks.... There could be moments of very soft, beautiful, exciting, we talked about this in previous marathons, tears, or evasion, or despair, or not even despair, and realizing how deeply you fell under a certain criteria... Or there could be strong moments, there might be emotional moments. It includes all the gamma and voice, and everything, but it's a matter of training that usually does sudden blows when the audience is least expected. It's a delicate moment, but very important, especially if it's about beautiful. Here are the old people who remember Fernanda Schwartz. All hipy-chhi, hahaha, young ones, tacos, and then at the end, AVE! When you almost feel, rising and voice, and the power of words, and the silence in the hall, everyone looks at you, and you see that you get to the climax, you have to calm them down first. The branches, the lily-lily are beautiful, and then you feel the moment, the baths. And then give it a rest, relax, laugh and all. But these emotional moments in the lecture of beautiful and strong plan must be predicted... You have to tell it by drawing it."

"The living word is," So, it's a culmination of perception, "we punch in consciousness, we have to open our eyes, we hit the masses, we think about them," And you can look at that on the other hand, I don't think about that, etc., "-- and we're going to repress. In short, we enter some difficult moments already closer to the break, especially close to the end of the lecture. And when you feel that there's a reabsorption, a secondary, a limit, people don't see it anymore, then you have to use the final step where you have to use the logistic perception and it starts to hit emotion and heart. The emotion and the heart. It's before the break is necessary, and it's necessary before the end of the lecture. I mean, in that part, when they don't understand anything, you need them to be called into them because of either conclusion, the one or the other narrative is mystical" feelings, "the equipment, the cataras. And it takes you to lecture to this consciously, using that moment that logic, your mind stops working, gets pushed around, and other mechanisms are included. And when they ask us questions, and why are you most interested in staying at the end of the lecture, now you know why. The interesting thing is not to explain, it's transmitted through this kind of cataracts. And in this context, you can draw a lecture so that all of the lectures are simple: one part is introduction, one part is culmination, and we hit the consciousness and the third part is emotion. And the highest art, when you're building a lecture with some big themes, and within every big topic you want to uncover, do these little cycles, you're hitting on consciousness -- emotions, then you relax, then the other subject: the introduction -- we punch on consciousness -- emotions -- relax. Then the third moment: the introduction -- we punch in consciousness -- emotions -- relax. And in the context of the global lecture is a clear introduction, a clear" hitting on consciousness "and still at the end of emotion -- high feelings, high mood, which should be the same as after the great wizard's concert. That's when we get to that, then I can tell you that you're an instructor."

So here's the ultimate honest description of the process of consciousness control: disconnecting logic thinking, trying to address just emotional perception, alternating culinary moments and psychological distortion. In these trainers, the result is also documented -- specific thoughts and feelings that should be in the audience after the lecture:

"And in this context from the lecture point of view you have to go to the state... that you live from lecture to lecture, and that your students, your people live from one to another meeting with you. This is called the second lotion or principle of sanctification, or higher mastery. Still not binding to you, not being dependent on you, but come to you as a source from which you can drink and go on. And when they feel thirsty again, they come back and live you. And if you don't get it, then there won't be a point from the facilitator."

To achieve more successful performance, students are actively active in what we call "sex innovation." A Russian clergyman named Alexander Drykin says, "Among the other Orwell has revealed the following law: he who controls the language of man controls the consciousness. Because in any cult, the victim starts to speak her language. In this case, it could be Russian, but there's a ton of confusion in it, where the key words come from another meaning, and the ardent will begin to think about sex categories." \[3\] That's what's happening in the New Acropolis. Management doesn't hide what inspires newlyweds to form new systems of thinking and perception.

"The next law is the Law of Psychological which, in terms of the facilitator, speaks to the process of creating collective apocalyptic and mental forms. What is this process in theory? It is that if there are ideas and moments that a person should not forget or should have always been present in her life and become the driving of her consciousness and selfishness, we have to make certain words, terms, become lexicotics, parts of the everyday life, the subject of anecdotes, scenes, greetings, toasts. It's called collective agelonal-mental... The notion of" dreams, "remember how old or" city of gold. "Now all the members are saying," To be in the city center of the city, "Maria, Don Kirk, the city of gold, hope, patience, hope, hope, hope of faith," -- curled phrases that matter not because they are used, but as proof, as a sign, as a result, something has become a collective soul, which is a collective form of thinking and perceptions. And this, of course, is a hard task on one side, but when you're reading a lecture or doing a class, you have to do it in order to go back, to promote these aerial-mental forms, but carefully without calling the protest without preaching. And actually, as HAL said, it's creating collective asvilic-mental forms, or called, banks of charge, which then act itself as kind of small departments, the guardians. It's based on emotion processing during the lecture or during the class. "Comments, as they say...

In fairness, it's worth noting that emotions control is equally applied to the facilitators themselves, bringing them to the fan state of exams and complete self-feedback:

"There are seven laws..." "The tool must be always sick... It's called being a sick idea. Being sick by the instrument... And even though that phrase that 10,000 times sounded out of different angles, that instrumental is a mission, it must live... And all of our tool classes and small groups and lectures, it's just a prostate to detect over many years of priests, loyal masters... This is the pivot, the channel, and this is what we live for."

There are also overrated signs for emotion control that include inductive phobia, which is the suggestion of irrational fears. Traditional branch is the sense of guilt and pain of leaving the sex.

It's important to note that the phobia data is actively active in members of the ISS. The website of No- acropocl.info in the consciousness control section says,

"Even by making a decision about getting out of New Orleans," a person generally cannot get away with the idea that she betrays "the ideal," the people who trusted her (both leaders and the fellow,), and herself. In the middle of the JS, the human output is regarded (mostly ineffectual) as treason -- and it inevitably affects those who are leaning towards the organization, but have not yet made the final decision...

The life of a man who rebuilt his lifestyle and his identity under "New Acropolis," is falling apart. "It starts to look for a new value system, a new relationship, often a new job, adapt to" peaceful "life. Of course, it's not that scary -- but it seems like a terrible disaster to the person who is under constant influence of the organization.

In terms of the soul, the New Acropolis theory, the person who rejected his destination and broke the vows at least lose this expression, and in the next consideration, it would be incredibly difficult to find her play again. Also, it's believed that by "New Acropolis," the person loses the opportunity to go "accelerating evolution" under teachers' direction and have to evolve slowly, "as all normal people," it's already the sense of "Excellency," by the vanity that New Acropolis "culates in such a clever way.

In fact, students are going to think that the only way in which human evolution is possible (dharma) goes through "New Acropolis," and therefore, regardless of human choice, it has to go this way. Every human being, under the New Acropolis ideology, has a service that represents its own law. So if she doesn't leave the organization, it doesn't change what she does, but it just makes it incredibly difficult for her to do it:

"About the Staples," one section for the students, "accept us as we are, or choose other ways and go with God. And let him not leave you without support, and through his grace you will return to us in one of the following lives." What's interesting is that this expression is almost literally the same as one of the most dangerous traits of the sex of Scientology. \[4\]

The feeling of guilt for the slightest guilt of the New Acropolis (not necessarily leaving the organization) is also cultivating quite strongly:

"The Stapula," 5.6 "for students," don't play with Nye, because you're playing with your destiny and you're wasting the love you're getting here. If you don't learn to be serious about the Holy One, you'll end up in spiritual poverty. It's not a threat, it's just a warning about the Law of Nature, as relentless as gravity or Pythagorean theorem. "

As for the KSOS, there are not so strong here, and it's mostly about finding meaning in life. "New Acropolis" in the minds of young are firmly associated with the beginnings of spiritual search and light view. So leaving the organization, young boys and girls, they will return to the empty and unspiritual places, losing the possibility of attaching to the ideal.

Obviously, in such a strong psychological process, there is no consciousness, and there is no more freedom to decide.

Actively used in the New Acropolis and other kinds of control of consciousness, including mind control. At the KSOS level, this is expressed, first of all, in a particular construction of the lecture, where in different, often contentious philosophical concepts, are sometimes common traits that are designed to lead the listener to think about what all of these concepts are saying about the same thing, which is about Jorge Linux's teaching. So the audience is subject to the conclusion that is not the result of their own thought and analysis. There is also a detailed instruction to support this "commonality":

"Arbed 7 laws..." "Every lecture I lecture, the meeting must have a base in the previous. If I read the stand, I can't read the steps without even referring to the previous lecture, which was about the Buddha, although I read it to someone else. On purpose. I mean, connecting to one chain and referring to the one who spent his class with me... This is to make your meeting, make conclusions, and can already prepare the people for the next. Not just words. Prepare the soil for the next tool, next impulse, next topic. And to predict it in his speech. The point is, (I'm speaking on the horizontal line now), so that you and I can create this chain of pulses."

In addition to artificially creating the commonality of ideas that sound in different subjects, the New Acropolis is artificially created by the sharing of information:

"The seven laws..." "" Merging Group means to create a lecture, to meet a little collective soul, or collective form, if you remember. Or wake up a collective soul. And not to speak to individuals, but to the collective soul of the group. And the effect of this effect is that what you say will be heard, but everyone... And if you reach this group, the collective soul of the group, then it's a collective unconscious distribution of everyone that's virtually... So it's not just trying to get them to understand something, but to teach all the groups to get to shared approaches in mind and emotion. So, working on what's called a mental condition with them. In order for them to learn information, they also learned how to think, feel, recognize and respond accordingly to everything around them. And here in this context, we talked, and HAL says, especially for facilitators, when you're reading a lecture, you're working on a bit of thinking systems, or images, or you're trying to transform them. "

At the GPS level, mind control is more strict. In particular, as No- acropol.info authors in the "Mind Control" section, there is a direct ban on critical thinking:

"On the basis of doubt," cried out... "by the cocuan-manus," which stands for rational human intelligence, which is a source of illusion, and it leads to the student for unwholesome reasons and an delusion. It is not possible to trust him, to rely upon him unwise; in fact, it is the same Satan that lives inside a man and tempts him, wanting to beat him from the true path. The mind can only be used as a tool to solve practical tasks, "protested spirit."

"If you want to know" teacher, become a real student, "you have to go beyond rationality," it usually sounds like "listen to your heart," "your inner voice," your intuition, etc. It is believed that, unlike the mind, the heart, which is associated with the spirit (immortal soul) of a person, is the source of only faithful impulses for progressive development. In that ability to hear an internal voice, which is often referring to the teacher's voice, depends on how good a student is. So the leaders are aware of this capacity in much more ways than the government members of the ISS. That's why people have their heart to listen to, but not to rely on it, but to trust only their leaders.

The word "critic" in "New Acropolis" is practically shit. "Creature" stands in the first place in the list of qualities that are missing in terms of the "Code of Honor of the Acropolis." The agro critic is considered a manifestation of personal ambitions and a sign that a person is a bad student.

For example, a person who criticizes his supervisor for silly decisions, authority, marriage, etc., it says that a good student, for whom an important brotherhood, unity and a great ideal, will never go down to criticisms. "

So let's do one example that confirms this. "About the vault," one section for the students, "" No need to be critical and disprove, or you'll be thrown into the same door that came in here. "So the psychological pressure of any person who doubts turns out to be so strong that she thinks she should leave her doubts but not lose her meaning of life and his destination is" New Acropolis. "

As for negative attitudes to other students, beliefs and religions, it manifests in a very specific form. No religion is being discovered is called "propaganda of Satan," but at the same time, because of the acronym ideology, no other religion is real. As they say in the New Acropolis, a certain religion contains "universal human values" and a set of human views that wear a secondary nature and serve only for dividing people. Of course, the fact that the true teaching is only contained in the New Acropolis ideology (for religious organization) is not deterministic. It's about forming negative attitudes for religion as a factor of a divided society, a phenomenon that invites people from true values. The variable in the future evolution of members of the New Wizard is the union of religion, so that the traditional religious systems that keep their identity are automatically revealed by the enemies of the organization and inhibits their goals.

In the form of consciousness, there is also control of behavior, which means that the system of certain responsibilities and restrictions, which are called the most severe reparting of the entire life of the Apapta, and fully take the time without leaving the possibility for critical thinking about what's going on. In New Acropolis, behavior control is very widely applied at the ISS level. On the No- acrocl.info website in the "Mind control" section is described as follows:

"The daily traffic of the average person with the JS is about twice as high as normal" man. In addition to working employment (or learning), he has responsibilities in the New Acropolis that require his systematic stay in the organization.

It is officially necessary to work on the New Acropolis at least twice a week; but in practice, people who follow this graph are usually considered passive. They have very little chance of becoming managers, and they can only be the artists of higher instruction; they also feel like they're trapped in school, and that feels pretty painful. Most leaders at the lower level typically work at the New Acropolis every night at work and all the weekends are complete. Middle and top-level workers typically spend in New Acropolis for most of the time: they usually do not have significant responsibilities outside of the organization (family pairs are most often derived from actors, family ties, virtually not supported, most of the leaders in stock firms or other structures work.)

Usually every Saturday at the New Acropolis is accompanied by a lengthy general meeting with the JS, then meeting in small groups, and the rest of the day is dedicated to doing practical work. So at least one of the two days from now, the person should be at the New Acropolis...

Before you go to sleep, every acting with the JS needs to analyse the last day and make an entry in the diary. For a few years, he was also obliged to fill out the table; for a while, the "table" has become mandatory. So even that short period of time that man spends "alone with himself," segmented: she should think about the subjects associated with the corresponding criteria of the student (the notion of the student "student" is simultaneously and mark the members of the HS, and the definition of the ideal that they must seek through self-improvement).

In addition, "tables" have been defined in many ways and all day as an actor: they have a sleep-saving time, a reception of food, need to control emotion, thoughts, and live the day intensively (i. e. every moment should either be devoted to or specific work, or think about the topic given). "Empty Time" (vehicle travel, forced expectations, etc.) It is recommended to fill out the reading of "right" literature and "raised consciousness" (as well as "visualization" image of the founder of the "Jorge Anchel Leaugi and other" sacred images, "which are" New Acropolis, "but also thought about the subject," what am I a student? "which are my flaws?, what is my teacher?

At the SST level, behavior control is also gradually increasing depending on the time of the organization. At first, there's only one time a week -- two and a half hours in the morning. And then you start having what we call "queries" -- meetings at home on the inseparables that are discussed in the school. In fact, these "queries" are kind of seminary exercises to attach material and answers to questions. Then the student enters all sorts of friendly shares (conducting classes in children's houses, ecological activities) to create a positive "New Acropolis" in society. There will be some preparation for these shares. Then the listeners begin to invite themselves to the New Acropolis every day under the excuse to help the school get ready for more measures. In addition, students are invited to various seminar and round tables. Soon, the New Acropolis becomes the meaning of the student's life and the only meaning of it.

Information control is hardly applied to the PST level, locked in the living realm. The No- acrocl.info site in the consciousness control section says:

Reading "foreign" literature (books, newspapers, etc.) and regularly watching television programs in "New Acropolis" does not forbid. But not particularly welcome. For example, from authoritarian leaders, you can often hear words like, "This is confusing," personally I only look on TV, "why do you want to read this nonsense?" etc. It's a pretty common point of view that reading the ashes of the E.P. Blavevsky and other theophosphers, H.A. Liearen, D.C. Guisman (currently leading to the New Acropol organization), a series of other books and journal "New Akrout" is enough for "whole-life-development." In fact, even reading this literature in most actors usually simply miss time.

The information control inside the JS itself is effective enough because of the rigid hierarchy, the time organization and the propaganda were conducted. The structure of the hierarchy is almost entirely excluded from getting "useless" information from top to bottom, and the clear organization of meetings and other activities limits the spread of information horizontally...

Another fact that restricts information distribution is an informing mechanism (we will not use the word "donors") installed in the system itself. The workers regularly write reports about their slaves, and any word they say can be fixed and evaluated. A little timely and human friends tell executives her "doubt" and "errors" to help her.

There's also new Acropolis rumors that have been taken under control in a fairly sophisticated way: the number of rumors have formed leadership in the way that it needs to be filled with information hunger. The information coming from the "external world" is regularly commented and explained in the ISS meeting. For example, when in 2000-2001, quite a number of members of the ISS left the organization, the members left the organization, the ones who remained, hated not to communicate with them, but for reliability because of the rumor system and the hint of the declarations that those who had gone, built subscriptions against the Acropolis.

So in the New Acropolis, we use all sorts of control of consciousness that does not leave the possibility of members of the organization to make their own free choice.

7.  What is the relationship with the outside world? A man who first got to New Acropolis is convinced that the New Acropolis is a secular cultural enlightenment organization whose goal is the maximum involvement of people into the cultural heritage of society. So it makes sense to assume that the task of such an organization is to integrate a person into society, to teach them how to love the world and value its culture. But in practice, it's the opposite. The thing is, one of the major signs of totalitarian sex is to create a kind of wall between the Apampum and the whole world. It's quite clear, because, by installing control over the human consciousness, the sex needs to be protected from the outside, other than the sex. The less the apostrophe's oriented outside, the stronger he's attracted to the sex and the addiction. That's why it's so important for the cult management to break all the outer bonds of the sequins that can lead a human being under the totalitarian control of the system. In New Acropolis, it shows up in a kind of cult of friendship and love. Real love, according to the New Field ideology, is a meeting of people who have been together in the past. So the person who doesn't believe in reincarnation can no longer be the same as the second captive. In fact, the real love of unbroken love has to do with "purpose," so be the relationship that prevent human work at "New Acropolis," has no right to exist. If you add the duty of JS members often lie to your families and simple hearers, hiding the existence of symbols, rituals and instructions of processing students, and huge employment of members of the organization's inner core is obviously the connections of the actors with their families and their friends are automatically destroyed.

The cast of New Fields to the world is very negative. It's quite natural to consider that the organization is willing to ensure maximum control over the awareness of the Apducts and therefore interested in protecting them from natural impacts coming out of lots of different media and works. In fact, in the past, in New Acropolis, it falls, it's immersed in materialism, and it's actually an evil medium, as opposed to the New Acropolis. This is a place that's typical of the totalitarian sect of the black-white doctrine world -- the division between organization and the rest of the world by principle we / they.

"The Conquer," 1.1 "for students," "To preserve and celebrate our Philosopher Brave," we need young people who don't want to spend their time on silly world. We are young and strong and nothing will make us other. "

And there are, 5.7 chapters for teachers: "In the modern world, the rich politics, the sequencing, the absurd fantasies, irrational fears, and especially hateful hate, young people are subjected to" brainwashing. "

The cast of members of the ISS to the world goes on and on their relationship to the audience of the U.S. "There were seven laws..." "When you come with your little lights, with your little impulse, configured, you see face in front of you, and they're actually in some context for you to become thin, favorite enemies, because when you come with something new, and they're still sitting in their old, in their stillness, their blindness, their bullies and their little fools. The first state that arises is to be armed with a cart, a shield like Don Kikhota on windmills, which is the Law of Actions... Be careful, not fighting to explain something better, or to mention something else, and to throw some information around the light and dark... It's a fight that's in high-class artists like Delhi, Helsa, the great teachers who come in and immediately know what's going to happen in the atmosphere and what we have to attack, and what we have to stop, and what we have to grow is done consciously."

And so the process of studying JS is seen as war with its students.

8.  Is "New Acropolis" a totalitarian sector? Given the above, we can conclude that New Acropolis has all the signs of totalitarian sex. More importantly, all the original characteristics of the New Area is not just the opposite, but it's simplified to the opposite. So the person who comes to the philosophical school in order to get to know ancient wisdom ends up in the cult of pagan totalitarian sex. Once again, the basic claims to "New Acropolis" are not that they have a teaching other than the teaching of the Orthodox or any other church, but that they hide from the non-office itself the fact that there are non-offices that are being taught and able to drive the Aps to adopt it through manipulation and the moral control technique of consciousness breaking the same essential right to the individual's own choice of worldview.

\[1\] Dejen A. Qarev, "Who sent Blanzska?" \[2\] A. Butan, Sexology: totalitarian sequences, 2003, sec. \[3\] A. Butan, Sexology: totalitarian sequences, 2003 p, 52. \[4\] Lectures from 31.12.1961 to lead quality. The quote is sent to the Informative letter I HELP AlDS # 16 from 01.11.05.
