"Living Word"

Elena Sikirich's class with the leaders. February 17, 1996. From the New Acropolis Archive.

A leader cannot be an organizer, cannot be a former, i.e. lead people, if in parallel he is not able to convey to a person the essence, the key point in any explanation, starting with a lecture and ending with an explanation of the work in the direction. A person cannot be a leader without being an internal instructor, and therefore we will be working on these two points in parallel.

At such instructor classes as today, only some theoretical points will be given, which will be developed in practice as instructors.

How the lecture is prepared.

The lecture must be digested and suffered.

... When I was a mineral, what was that? Where did you come from? Here are these things, when a person embodies the topic within himself, as he can and as he knows, on a small level. When this topic is alive for him in terms of those changes, those turning points, those rethinkings that cause in him. And if, when you are preparing a lecture, the topic within you did not cause a rethink, then you did not prepare it. Naturally, there is another element of this “suffering” topic that concerns small groups or any announcement at a lecture. How can I just announce, "In a week, there will be an environmental event for the school members from this hour to this hour," if I know that this environmental action is so and so for me. I will try to communicate to members through this announcement why it is important and why it inspires me. Without this aspect of "suffering," there is no word. I must live this environmental action, I must see for what, I must rejoice in it in advance, so that I can speak and announce it. This is called “suffering the lecture.”

During this preparation for a lecture, when we stop with mentalization, scholasticism, etc., when we study a new topic, it begins to work within us as an athanor. We experience anguish about the lecture, there are moments when because of the topic we can not sleep, because it touched us so much that at night certain moments are spinning, it excites. You sit in the subway and you say, “That’s great!” And when you get to the state of “how great!”, then you are ready, you can transfer the topic to others. And there is no topic in which you cannot reach the state of “how great!”, “how clear, how clear!”, and which could not disturb you internally for days, and which could not generate a bunch of thoughts that are useful to you personally. This is called suffering lecture. This is called preparing yourself for a lecture. And that means that no matter what topic I read, I transform and become a character, a situation that I talk about in the topic. If I am talking about cosmogenesis, this is the principle of imagination – I must feel, see, not just understand dry information, I must experience it, imagine how it happens. And when I talk about it, it's alive before my eyes. If I'm talking about how the Templars went to war, I see these Templars. I'm among them, I see one falling, the other bleeding, I'm inside. This is the supreme art of being transformed into the situation you are talking about, of entering it, of speaking not from the outside, as an observer, but as a participant in it. This means suffering the lecture, not from the outside, as an observer, but as a participant in what you are talking about.

And the HAL taught us that in this context, it's okay to come up with some information that no one will verify, even if they say it never happened. But there will be no information, but the essence of what they wanted to convey. You will give people the living forms that you created in this way. And in this context, to suffer a lecture is a creative work: to create and transmit. And you think you would have stigmatized HAL for the fact that when he gave the lecture “Gordano Bruno”, he clearly concocted before the public to hear some members of the GS who served the lecture that Giordano Bruno was in Zagreb and founded a school, the core of which was called “Phoenix” (then the GS was called “Phoenix” in Zagreb), and that this was the beginning of the first spiritual impulse in Eastern Europe. But he said so, that those who understood his words did not see Giordano Bruno, saw him, and even believed him - maybe it was, although we know that it was not. Everything is relative in time and space, and facts that did not happen in reality may have happened on other planes. So there are things that logic can't accept, but something inside of us (called moments of sacred inspiration in a lecture) makes us tell it. Here is an example of Hal, the great Hal, who never lied or even told the fact that Giordano Bruno arrived in Zagreb, even though that never happened. Delia then laughed: "I really wanted him to come over, but he didn't come over." Delia then asked: “Well, why did you come up with such a thing?” – there were journalists, television, and everything – “It was necessary somehow to thank the poor women’s services of Croatia, Yugoslavia then,” smiled. There are moments that do not lend themselves to logic, and they need to be caught in the lecture, and then the lines between information, knowledge and inspiration shift, and the lines between truth and untruth disappear. And truth is then what you pass on to lectures, truth is a principle that passes. That should make sense to you.

And from the point of view of the training of the instructor himself, we will talk about this in more detail, when there is a theme of “Inspiration”, and when there is the inspiration itself. And now the famous theory of Hiero logos, which answers the question of who and what is said inside us during a lecture. I say this as a preparation for the lecture, because the instructor must realize all these points sooner, otherwise he will be a teacher, not an instructor.

The theory of Hiero logos or "Sacred Word".

When a word is pronounced not only to inform about a fact, but when the word is used as a means of creation. Remember the story of Hal: the potter dreams of his vessel. From the moment when dreams of a vessel begin, the archetype of this vessel already begins to be embodied in form - from that moment. And it explains the fact that the word in this context, whenever it is spoken, not only in lectures, but in general, has, in moments of inspiration, the form through which the action of the will manifests itself. This is the most successful and so far the only form through which the pure principle of will manifests itself outward. "In the beginning there was a word" - if you remember, and then you create images and shapes. In what context? In order to make this clear to you, I would like to remind you of one point from a lecture on the 6th race. When Blavatsky explains that there will come a time when there will be no sex difference, when people will incarnate in a kind of “androgynous” and when any form of reproduction, starting with the physical, will be carried out through the interaction of thought and word. And I explain this in lectures, even though people look with round eyes like this -- I explain it in a more accessible way -- they laugh, "I thought, I said, I did," literally. And when Blavatsky explains that in this way children will be born, that is, there will be no need for any physical or other work - I want to create - thought, said in the appropriate form, and the form is already born under the influence of my word. And this is called the principle of the "Holy Word" in oratory. And you have to understand that when you give a lecture — any one — thank God that we are too small for this principle to work, but sometime, sometimes, when we ourselves do not realize this, our word has the power of action: said — already there is a process. Good and bad. You begin or set in motion the process of transformation into form. The moment the archetype drops, the idea. And of course, from here comes responsibility for your words. Because if you say the wrong thing, then you are calling and incarnating the wrong thing, and accordingly, you interact with the law of Karma, which has its own plans for creation, either we agree with them, or if we get wrong, sanctions are imposed. Here's the point you need to understand inside the lectures. And the man who has the art of working through the word is a magician. And regardless of the fact that we are very small, a lecture, a poem, an evening, a small group should be one form of magical or mystical action. It's important that you understand. The principles that are spoken about, the key points that are caught, what is spoken in you, automatically triggers in you the process of action. You said the word and left, and the people who were affected, the process begins within them and continues. This is the greatest responsibility and the greatest challenge to get there.

How does this magical action of your word reflect on a small level? You will not be able to verify it, but the main thing is that people have it. It is reflected that at certain points in life this word is remembered as a statement of the fact that this is indeed so. And accordingly, it turns out that your task at the lecture is to prepare yourself so that “suffering yourself” within the lecture will trigger the corresponding events of Karma through your word, the fate of your listeners. Your word must be so strong. That's the mystery of learning. So that they are confirmed in practice, so that people then live and pass through it. If your word is dead, it will remain unconfirmed by human experience. That’s what makes us different from other teachers.

The instructor is an actor of initiatory theater.

When a person prepares himself for a lecture, this state he simply continues and repeats during the lecture. He should become an actor of the initiatory theater. Once again, we recall ten thousand times chewed words that the actor of the initiatory theater plays in a drama that is created not for the audience, but for himself. And, playing different roles, he, accordingly, reincarnates in them, becomes them, and passes through a certain inner experience. In this context, when you give a lecture, if you want people to be transformed through this lecture, you have to be transformed both before the lecture during preparation and during the lecture yourself. We come to a long-known point, which has been mentioned ten thousand times, that during the lecture (and it would be good if it was already in preparation for the lecture), you are no longer Petr Petrovich, Tatiana Krasilnikova, etc., etc. You become a different being, you are not familiar with yourself, you do not have to recognize yourself during the lecture. You must bring yourself through preparation to such a state that later, when you read the record of your lecture, you will be surprised: “Is this what I said?” – and that your own words, your own lecture, appear to you, when you read it in a normal state, completely unfamiliar. This is the greatest skill of transforming a person in front of others. And perhaps others will not understand this and will think that it is self-evident that this is always the case – morning, afternoon, and evening. And you understand and know, and you see that thanks to this transformation everything goes clearly, normally, not as planned, but as needed. This is where the instructor has to go.

The need for internal catharsis or purification.

In this vein, we move on to the last point in the preparation for the lecture. In order for a lecture to suffer before and during, you need to cause catharsis not only on stage, but first inside yourself. Without internal catharsis or purification, there can be no external catharsis and no impact on the public. What does that mean? That the same states of tenderness, regret, goosebumps, dreaminess should be experienced by you during preparation. In order for the audience to cry, first, during preparation, you must cry. In order for the audience to have goosebumps, first, during the preparation for the lecture, you must have them. That's important. When you prepare a lecture along with new revelations, along with questions, revisions, there is a cleansing of dirt, redemption, this is the other context or the other side of the coin, what was talked about yesterday. Not to be confused with "smacking"? And when we answer the question: “How to cause this catharsis in the public?” – the audience must experience it during some moments of the lecture, otherwise the lecture will not be given, naturally, we will first talk about how to be inspired and how to cause it within ourselves.

The need for concentration.

Then we move on to the lecture. A few more points that concern the lecture itself, so that you are more or less orientated. When you're preparing for a performance, or before you go onstage, or for a small group, there's another very important thing: focusing before you perform. I also talked about this a long time ago, when I explained to you that it is impossible that a person who is all out of breath, ragged, late for a lecture, immediately went on stage, or after he was jerked at half-time or in the lobby on various organizational issues, went, took the microphone and began to read. We need to find some privacy. Ideal option: before a lecture or a small group, retire not only internally, but also externally, escape to some corner where no one is, where no one sees you, no one is looking at you. The ideal way to play music is to help a lot, which is why I always insist on music during the break and before the lecture. It helps the lecturer, not just the listener, because this music, when you listen to it, calms thoughts, helps to draw a model of the lecture and evoke memories. If I have a lecture about Giordano Bruno and if I play Bessame Mucho 5 minutes before the lecture, then it is difficult for me to tune in, and if something else is played - any, quiet, calm music, I imagine Giordano Bruno in his suffering and struggle, but calm, silent, brooding to the touch; if Wagner plays, then the greatness of the victim goes. Music creates images for an impressionable person that are very helpful. And most important of all, during concentration, I reveal the secret, but you use it as you please, you need to call up some patron, some sacred image, something that you care most about, and ask to be inspired to speak through you. Not even to ask, but to make such a small silent inner conversation. A person who is small himself comes out in front of a huge audience who need not just to give something, but to promote them from the point of view of their fate, and a person, in this moment of solitude, understands that he himself does not know anything, can not see anything - he is blind, like a small kitten, no matter how his topic was prepared. This is the moment of the Mysteries before the lecture, when you imaginatively, internally invoke the sacred images that inspire you. And as for the last time before the fight, and each lecture is a new fight, ask for blessings, once again “at the feet of the Master”, explaining to him what this is and such a thing – if you do not help, you will not say in vain all our work, I myself cannot. Hear that? Yes. Let's go! And go together. Careful, this is not pathos, and should not be pathos, should not be profanation, should not be delight, astral. This is a very subtle, very intimate moment, which in the soul of every instructor should be taken for granted, a necessity of the soul. And in my own practice, I assure you that if this moment is not there, the lecture is much more difficult. I'm leading you to the fact that you should not give a lecture alone, but with someone who, of course, you will not know and realize this, must be there. If you feel that way during a lecture, it doesn’t matter what you’re talking about. Let's talk about the Stoics, and you talk about Giordano Bruno, it doesn't matter, people won't notice.

Group perception cycles.

A few more points. When you start a lecture, the first thing you should feel, and during the lecture you should feel it quite specifically, is the group perception cycles. This is something you should know in advance, even though I often neglect it. No way. This is something that you have to work almost instinctively, and after the 2nd, 3rd, 4th lecture you have to learn to instinctively master it. First, the level of perception of the group changes during the lecture. Modern psychologists say that the most favorable interval, when perception more or less works, is from 30 to 40 minutes. without a break, maximum an hour. But the ideal perception is 30-40 minutes. And even if we take an hourly cycle, or say 30-40 minutes, we have to keep in mind that perception is weaker at the beginning and at the end. In the first 15 to 20 minutes, you intuitively need to introduce people into the topic, focus, direct, as philosophers say, their mental efforts to you, interest them, so that all these efforts of the mind are directed to you, and if there was a real clairvoyant, he would see as it were rays that are focused on you. Then the perception begins to work and builds up to the climax – this is the middle stage, then again weaken after 30 minutes. And in this third stage, after the climax, the main thing you have to catch is that there is a moment (if the person is an experienced instructor, then he feels it perfectly at every lecture) when satiety comes. People logically, i.e. with the mind, no longer perceive, no longer understand on the shelves – they reach the edge. And then the logical perception, the perception of the mind passes into the so-called "supersensitive" perception. You must lead them to this fatigue, a logical oversaturation, so that they no longer understand anything logically, can not follow the thread, and then they will begin to perceive other mechanisms, within which there are high emotions at least, and sometimes some small intervals of intuition as a maximum.

In this context, how do you construct a lecture knowing that there are these three stages - with peak and with waning moments? We will work on this in detail later. Your task is to introduce the problem in the first stage. When the perception is not yet focused on you, make an introduction. But carefully, the introduction should not be too long or too short. It must, it must be felt, and I will try to teach you in practice as long as the audience will focus on you. As soon as you feel that the audience is focused on you, feel the same attention as one organism, then you should move on to the essence of the lecture, that is, to the model that you imagined.

So in this intermediate moment, it's 30 minutes, no more, for 30 minutes, when you see that the attention is maximum, you have to hit the consciousness, that is, regardless of what is in your plans - whether there is a long historical story, a biography, or something else, some moments of boring structures, etc., before you get to the bottom, you stop automatically and use these 30 minutes in order to reach the perception, to conscious understanding, to beat on consciousness, to break in consciousness. The reaction of the public should be, figuratively speaking, with an open mouth. And when you succeed in this break in consciousness during the climax of perception, then you will see that people stop writing and look at you, and once you notice these moments, you amplify the explanation. As soon as you see that they start writing again, calm down. These are subtle moments, but very important.

So, there is a climax of perception, we strike at consciousness, we need to open their eyes, beat at Manas, at revelation, understanding: “And this can be looked at from the other side, did I not think about it, etc.,” and lead to oversaturation. Especially, we introduce some difficult moments closer to the break, especially towards the end of the lecture. And when you feel that there is oversaturation, fatigue, edge, people do not perceive any more, then you need to use the last stage, when the logical perception decreases and another begins, in order to beat the emotions and the heart. Emotions and heart. This is a must before the break, and a must before the end of the lecture. That is, in that part, when they already and so do not understand anything, it is necessary that you in them evoke through this or that conclusion, this or that story mystical “feelings”, discharge, catharsis. And you need to give a lecture to this consciously, using the very moment that logic, the mind stops working, supersaturates and turns on other mechanisms. And when people ask us why you leave the most interesting thing at the end of the lecture, now you understand why. The most interesting thing is not explained, but transmitted through this kind of catharsis.

And in this context, you can build a lecture so that you have a simple whole lecture: one part is the introduction, another part is the climax, beat on consciousness and the third part is the emotions. And higher art, when you're lecturing on some big topic, and within every big topic that you want to explore, there are these little cycles: the introduction — hit the consciousness — emotions, then relax, then again, another topic: the introduction — hit the consciousness — emotions — relax. And then the third point: the introduction -- we hit the consciousness -- the emotions -- we relax. And in the context of the general lecture there is a clear introduction, a clear "beat on consciousness" and still at the end of the emotions - high feelings, high moods, it should be the same as after the concert of the great master. That's when we get to that, then I can say you're my instructor. And between cycles, it's very good to use silence or pause, which is the zero point, the transition from one cycle to another.
