# Lecture by Elena Sikirich for members of the Living Forces on the esoteric origins and tasks of the New Acropolis

Summer experience of "Living forces" (visiting classes in nature), 1999 Fragments of audio recording decryption

\[...\] Where did the apprenticeship school come from? What's our mission? What is the purpose of GS in school, inside the GS, in the outside world? What is this great dream that we must realize or begin to realize before the year 2000? What are our responsibilities?

The HAL clearly states that the task of the Acropolis is, in fact, a repeated attempt to give impetus to the sixth sub-race of the fifth race. Our task is through everything we do: to give impetus to the sixth sub-race of the fifth race. This impulse has already been given many times with varying success, beginning with Egypt, Greece, a little through the Middle Ages, then again through the Renaissance, and the last to have such a task was the Theosophical Society.

\[...\] The first thing we need to understand is that the Acropolis is not just a school. The Acropolis was founded as another impulse. Another of the millions, hundreds of thousands of impulses that have been going on ever since the Great White Lodge was founded and how the high entities, the lords and the Prometheans descended into the world of men. The Acropolis is another impulse in the 20th century of the great pact, which was concluded twice, in fact: once – 18 million years ago, and the second time confirmed a million years ago, when the fifth race was already founded. And that every Acropolisman, in fact, every student \[...\] carries within him the memory of this great pact that the teachers made on our behalf. And so the Acropolis is like another attempt by the hierarchy, the great white lodge, to give impetus: in very difficult times, to revive the mysteries on earth and prevent (I just quote HAL) the brothers of darkness from taking over again.

\[...\] And the fact that we, little ones, now have the right to talk about these great things is not to talk, but in order to understand that the task is difficult and even almost impossible. But we are not alone; behind us is a hierarchy of real great masters who have made the same attempts ten thousand times, perhaps at some point with us. And in this sense, we can say that just because we have such a name today does not mean that this is the first time we are working on this task. It can be said that the Acropolis for many millennia, in fact, reincarnated with the same high souls, great masters, the same Hal, who was called differently, Delia, and that this is one of our reincarnations.

\[...\] The brightest, brightest moments when our family left their footprints were Egypt. They were different eras. But the era that is actually closest in terms of memories is Thebes. You and I are Thebans \[...\] All our teachings, all our knowledge, all our memories, all our protection and patronage of the great entities of the Hal and through the Hal we brought to this world, in this age, from Thebes, from Egypt. Especially from that transitional, rather gloomy period, when the last time the Theban school overcame the state of decline and decline in the New Kingdom, it overcame this state of darkness in the New Kingdom, which attacked it at the time of Akhenaten and Tutankhamun. Once again, the great mysteries and hidden wisdom were saved from the direct destruction of the materialists.

In fact, we managed to postpone this moment until the 19th and 20th centuries, when, unfortunately, our family could not resist it. One result of this was, among other things, a revolution in Russia. This is what manifested its fruits in the 19th and 20th centuries as a sharp onslaught of materialism, positivism, etc., could have happened much earlier, if not for our family, the fourth ray, if not for Thebes. And if it weren't for the great effort when it started to roll down.

And it is said that it was then that the teachers and the hierarchy created a plan to try to give impetus to the sixth sub-race of the fifth race. And in different epochs and in different generations, through different spiritual families or flocks, but the basis of which was the family of the so-called fourth ray, or the Theban family, to which we belong.

Part of this plan, in which our family was directly involved (and the memories of this are kept in the heart of every true Acropolisman), was to transfer the mysteries from Egypt to Europe, from Africa to Europe, as Europe was to become the cradle of the next sub-race of the fifth race. Thus was born the famous Anax, to whom we belong. Those who wear a jersey with our NA logo know very well that these letters contain the word Anax. Same ones. History repeats itself from Atlantis. Our family is chosen as the carrier of the mission. Great masters are chosen who will protect these impulses; great initiates are chosen next to the great masters; accepted disciples are chosen; and small ants, including ourselves, are chosen in order to revive the ancient mysteries in Greece. And so were born the famous kings, the priests, the initiates \[...\] and their symbol was a chariot with tigers.

\[...\] On the one hand, our family went through the Pre-Socratics; all the philosophers whose name has the root "Anax"; Pythagoras, Plato; the Stoics (I go on to Rome) are all of us, ours went. Does it not surprise you why we are close to their teachings? Why, when we read the Stoics, is it like listening to Hal? When we read Marcus Aurelius, is it as if we were listening to Hala? Or do we read Socrates, Plato, ancient Egyptian scriptures? It’s all in us, we don’t read it, we remember it.

The center of civilization, the center of the so-called small ideal state, but which, unfortunately, could not resist, was Athens, the golden age of Pericles. From there we have a name in this era, from there we were given the New Acropolis. Where it was possible to combine the nobility, justice of the form of pure civilizations for people with the formation of student cores. Because the task was to make a chain through the ages to transmit the torch. And all the moments of knightly orders, I remind you once again, all the sagas about King Arthur, about the Knights of the Round Table are just echoes, memories in the Middle Ages about Anax. The concept of an island, that is, of places pure on earth, the chakras of the earth, where the great white lodge lived at that time, or its branches, originate from there. The first person in Europe who gets the task of making a copy of the teaching island in various parts of the world, from which concepts such as the esoteric school are born, was Anax.

\[...\] One of Anaxa's strongholds, the last stronghold was Alexandria, the Neoplatonic school. And as Hal said, when we met him a long time ago, I don't brag, but there were kings and priests and philosophers and teachers and disciples and ladies and knights and martyrs in our family. And, unfortunately, the history of the Serapeum is our history. This is not our defeat, but the moment when we could not withstand the onslaught, when one of our houses of life, the innermost centers, was destroyed to the ground. There are also underground temples of the Serapeum in Alexandria, which remain, only their entrances no one knows, and no one knows that they are left. Our temples are still there. History of Hypatia in Alexandria. This is our martyr, our man. The same times that are remembered with grief. We have had victories, defeats, and martyrdom, which is not a defeat, but a martyrdom on the altar, a sacrifice. There was so much, so much in our family history.

Marcus Aurelius is our man. The last Roman emperor is Julian, who dreams that the eagle flies to the East, returns back, leaves Europe and takes with him his sacred signs. The golden eagle, i.e. the man in sacred robes, i.e. the priest, the king on our symbol, is the symbol of the Anaxa kings, or the king of the Anaxa kings. There is a great teacher, also called, who has been the main and main patron of the Acropolis ever since. And thanks to the inspiration and impulse of which Hal received all our symbols. His mysteries are in our flag. It's Anax. His mysteries are in the eagle. We have many hidden mysteries that we ourselves do not know and about which, of course, are not spoken, only in very subtle and important moments, in order to remember, to learn from previous experience and to find power. Because we are waiting for another battle no worse than those that have already passed.

Anax almost ceased to give signs about himself in the Middle Ages. In the Middle Ages, we were on holiday. But there was a moment when our pack came out a little bit. You have no idea? The Renaissance, Giordano Bruno, is us. Giordano Bruno, in addition to what was known in his history, created cores, disciplic cores, in his travels through Europe, very similar to us. This was an attempt not only to put an end to the Middle Ages, but to give impetus to the fact that its fruits were supposed to manifest only in the 19th and 20th centuries. Turn your consciousness. Another attempt to pave the way for the birth of the sixth sub-race of the fifth race. Giordano Bruno, we're not just rehabilitating. This is another martyr. But this is a man who actually did, at the turn of the 16th and 17th centuries (live, imagine, in the same period of the century as we did), who literally created the Acropolis without calling it the Acropolis. And hiding from the Inquisition. The secret name of this school is unknown. But this is what Hal writes in his book The Alchemist. About the nuclei that were hiding from the Inquisition so much that few people knew about them, but did a great job so that even historians today could talk about the Renaissance. There is gossip in the Acropolis, there is an assumption that Giordano Bruno was one of the incarnations of the teacher Sri Rama, the teacher of Hal.

Fly through books, look at photographs, read the memoirs of philosophers. And if you know the familiar phrases, then it's us.

We reach the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. Freemasonry in its diverse groupings (this is not us), as well as the traditional teachings of the Rosicrucians (but not the Order of AMORC, founded in the early 20th century) were an attempt by the hierarchy to recapture some of the initiatic elements that existed in the courts of the 18th and 19th centuries. The Masons are not us, and the Rosicrucians are not us, but that too was the impulse of the hierarchy.

The Khal further writes about Freemasons and Rosicrucians (but, cautiously, not the AMORC: there is the Rosicrucian AMORC, which gives initiations in the 20th century by mail and now on the Internet too, these are not the Rosicrucians who were an attempt at hierarchy):

But these attempts were immediately distorted and degenerated into highly politicized forms, which were strongly influenced by Enlightenment positivism and Marxism. (It was positivism and Marxism that came later.) - E.S. These latter trends were themselves born out of an over-intellectual and over-theoretical view of the world, and in their essence they were quite the opposite of the true traditional esoteric doctrine. Both the West and the East were overflowing with currents of this plane, studying more superficial phenomena in all things than their true inner essence and structures. And at that moment (19th century, ours already went). It's a subfamily, not us, but ours, ours. Listen to what Hal says. - E.S.) HPB appears, surrounded by a host of ancient old souls who have responded to the new call of the hierarchy. And so the Theosophical Society was founded.

Despite its initial success, the movement also became dangerously mixed with elements of chaotic anarchy stemming from the dark land of the restoration process. Tired of constantly fighting against slanderers and gossipers and constantly suffering severe blows from her own environment, HPB in her books, especially in her outstanding work, the synthesis of all the teachings, The Secret Doctrine, decides to address not only her era and her contemporaries, but especially to minds living in the 20th century, which she will physically never see. (H.P.B. and Theosophists, our brothers, our family, were actually preparing the work for us.) - E.S.

After her long and mysterious journeys, of which we know very little, she takes refuge in London, surrounded by some ladies of aristocratic origin, her disciples, to complete her great work, in which, with the help of teachers of wisdom, she makes a synthesis of all knowledge and life experiences, all that she managed to conquer and save from oblivion, all that she taught at Adyar and elsewhere in the world.

The "Secret Doctrine" was prepared for a spiritually prepared public, but the most intimate elements were left for the esoteric school, which at one time maintained contact with the Theosophical Society. After the death of the HPB teacher, it was very difficult to maintain this connection because of the emergence within the Theosophical Society of the so-called Free Catholic Church, the left-leaning trend and the tendency to modernize traditional teachings, and also because of the emergence within the Theosophical Society of the so-called Golden Branch, a right-leaning political trend within which the idea of conquering the world by storm and force and the rapid implementation of certain initiatic principles is born.

From the Free Catholic Church, various movements are born: anthroposophy, the Arcana School, and the Star of the East, headed by the then prodigy Krishna, now known as Krishnamurti, the bitterest enemy of all societies of any type, except, of course, its own, which has survived to this day in the form of a large international publishing house.

Within the Golden Branch there arises and passes into Europe a direction called the Tula Lodge, about which there is already a lot of information, at least exoteric, and which gave impetus and doctrine to the political movement, now collectively called "Nazism" with all the famous sad prologues and epilogues derived from its actions.

The task of the Theosophical Society was but to change completely the criteria of life, so that people would turn to the eternal and upper criteria, to create, resurrect the great mysteries. That's our job, too. And thanks to the insistence of the HPB, an esoteric school was established with selected students, specially trained, etc., who were taught directly by the great teachers Moria and Kut Hoomi, and to whom the teaching was given so that they could transmit it to the next chain, that is, to us. The problem is that people who entered the esoteric school were not fully tested for unselfishness, ambition, greed. And not fully tested for the ability to sacrifice and sacrifice. And it so happened that some members of the esoteric lodge began to abuse the knowledge they received. And when they left or were expelled from the esoteric school, they began to establish their own lines, which still continued to work within the Theosophical Society.

And sadly, the result of the work of the esoteric school, the undesirable result of those members who were expelled, is, on the one hand, the Free Catholic Church, Leadbeater, which continued to work as a state within a state, and led the Theosophists into such a wilderness of false Christianity, of esoteric Christianity, which no teacher would later support. Although initially Leadbeater was an accepted student and was directly taught by both Blavatsky and the great teachers.

And no matter how strange it may seem, from the pseudo-esoteric Christian direction of the Free Catholic Church, left trends are born, which later led to communism, including. Among them is Steiner’s pseudo-esoteric anthroposophy, the completely stolen teachings of the esoteric school and HPB and completely distorted by Steiner’s personal theories. I promise you for this fact: Anthroposophy has never been an impulse of hierarchy, never. Rather, it was abuse after Steiner left the esoteric school of the Theosophical Society and betrayed Blavatsky.

And the famous Star of the East, the unsuccessful attempt of the avatar Krishnamurti, who stands out from the esoteric school, unwilling to accept as a basis service to the common good. And where one part of the teachings of the esoteric school is taken and the so-called doctrine of individual evolution is taught: one cannot join any organization, one must preserve freedom and individually evolve, that is, to reach certain occult degrees. It is Krishnamurti who speaks of all things, morals, etc., only on the individual plane. And the problem is that this denial of collective impulses, of collective work, happened after it had not been tested for the same thing. When he was supposed to have an almost avatar role, he failed and then began to categorically deny everything that is a collective work for the service of humanity.

And the saddest consequence of the esoteric school of the Theosophical Society. The distorted teachings of the people expelled from there create the famous Golden Branch, within which the Tula Lodge is born. Nazism with all the dark, destructive, terrible consequences that Nazism had. Where is the main idea of the Golden Branch and the Lodge of Thule: the initiatic mysteries are good, for the benefit of civilization, but people do not know what is good for them, it must be imposed by force. And the distortion began, from Plato to all moments of anthropogenesis, cosmogenesis. And the sad Second World War, which was actually a war between the brothers of light and the brothers of darkness, a hierarchy of light and a hierarchy of darkness. It's better not to stop there. But one of the sad consequences that we still feel is that some of the innermost symbols, colors, shapes, etc., have been so distorted by destructive magnetisms that we who came after them (this is Theosophy, in fact) have to suffer because we are accused of Nazism. But the forms are initiatic, they cannot be changed, they must be cleaned now, cleansed of all the charge that was awakened during the Second World War and before it.

And after these sad consequences, which the esoteric school has actually left behind, HAL concludes further:

“The iron jaws of the 20th century, which many had dreamed of and which brought so many disappointments, in one way or another crushed to dust and brought to a complete failure the various forms of esotericism. Not only those who were accessible to people; they trampled on the very secret esoteric in the true sense of the word. The esoteric school, which had survived and persisted in spite of everything, was no longer growing or developing, suppressed by the inertia of the Theosophical Society, which for half a century had been the only way to its doors. Since the Theosophical Society had long been in a state of decay and decay, the Esoteric School officially closed its doors in mid-1950. I was 19 at the time. And despite the fact that I was already trained and formed within the canons and laws of the esoteric school, I myself did not know anything about it for a long time. It so happened that when the school closed, I, being then in the ranks of the Theosophical Society and already being the head of its Argentine section, inwardly celebrated this closing. Because it seemed to me at the time that the school itself was just a mysterious refuge for old vegetarians. The fact that the school was closed has never been publicly known. And one could even say that the school died in silence much more silently than when it was born.”

\[...\] I hope you have understood that there is one general rule of hierarchy in all epochs and in all times, especially in moments of turning points, in troubled times, when the impulse for a new age is given, and when correspondingly with this impulse there is an attempt to revive the mysteries, whether small or great or in some form. There is always a need for an intermediary through which these mysteries can not only be revived, but through which they can be transmitted. There can't be many mediators. There can only be one mediator within a century. Just one. It's the law of hierarchy. The mediator can only be one family, one group, which is considered worthy to earn this momentum and create forms and models. To do this, create a so-called apprenticeship school, in quotes, which in the future would bring to the esoteric school. In this sense, the law is strict and has never had an exception. And just as the mediator can be only one group, one pack, one impulse, the mediator itself between teachers and men, there can also be one single person between the mysteries and the disciples.

In the 19th century, the challenge was this. There's a channel to get people to the mysteries. This channel is the Theosophical Society. If this channel deserves it, an esoteric school will be opened. And if any man on this planet wishes to enter the Mysteries, he must enter the Theosophical Society. It was only through this channel, only through admission to the Theosophical Society, that the doors to the Mysteries were opened to him in the 19th century. And there was also one single mediator between teachers and students in the 19th century: it was the E.P.B. In order that later teachers would recognize accepted disciples in the same Olcott, Besant, Leadbeater, and many unknown Theosophists (but more worthy than Leadbeater and the Besant Company), it was necessary that HPB should be alive. Through its so-called fluids, its so-called aura. And it was necessary, if the EBP dies, for a person to stand out who could carry out the same mission. And the failure of the Theosophical Society was, esoterically, that this man did not exist, once. That no one in this sense could replace the EPB, not even Olcott. Because this is a terrible thing that involves a lot of suffering. And that the Theosophical Society was not created by a channel for conduction. And so, as HAL writes, the esoteric school both opened and died. Because the Theosophical Society, which was its bearer, failed to create a channel between men and prepare men for it. Preparing in terms of service, sacrifice, etc. And it is a well-known fact about which HAL writes in his biography that HAL was the last student of the esoteric school. It closed in 1950, and HAL was her last student, although for a long time he was unaware of it.

A new century has come, a new millennium. Every century for the past 25 years, the hierarchy has given an impulse to try again. And now, even though we don't tell our members that we're vain, etc., in the 20th century, the only channel to teachers is the Acropolis. Just like the 19th century Theosophical Society. This is our family. The only channel, and the only one at all, who were given the right to pass the tests to deserve the esoteric school, is the Acropolis. And if any of the 4-5 billion people living on Earth want to get into the mysteries, they must get to the Acropolis. And go through all the steps, starting with the white program, the first cycle, and get into the GS. Because in order for someone in the next life to dream of the Mysteries at all, the first step he must earn is GS. This is the link in the chain that the Theosophical Society lacked. The long process of testing love, unselfishness, unselfishness, sacrifice and service was lacking. This is the chain of verification.

We, unfortunately, also did not deserve an esoteric school, this is obvious, although the deadline is approaching. Because in order to open an esoteric school, ready students are needed. Except for Hal and Delia, it's a failure. And so now there's a great dream. Failure is not final. Not for our sake, but for the sake of being able to accomplish the mission (and I will read a little bit about this mission from the teachers’ letters), we must now create a school of students. We need to become students in the deepest and broadest sense of the word.

The Acropolis for what the Theosophical Society was also for. Keep in mind that any family, any school of this kind, which is sent to the world as an impulse of teachers, is naturally put on trial. To see if she is worthy of continuing. How long do you think the school’s test cycle is? Seven years one test cycle, then sum up the results. Then, for the next seven years, another round of trials, and then they take stock. And I would like to begin with a letter written by the teachers Koot Hoomi and Moria as the first seven years of trials were over in the Theosophical Society. \[...\]

On November 17 this year, the seven-year trial period given to the Society. What they say is about us in one way or another. Either we have or we don't. At its foundation, in order to preach carefully, it expires. One or two of us had hoped that the world had advanced so intellectually, if not intuitively, that occult doctrine might gain intellectual acceptance and momentum for a new cycle of occult research. Others, wiser as it now seems (meaning other teachers, the wisest among the great white lodge). - E.S., took a different view. But consent to the test was given. However, it was conditioned that the attempt should be carried out independently of our personal management (this is written by teachers). - E.S.) that there should be no supernormal interference on our part. (Teachers do not interfere directly with our work.) - E.S.

When we searched, we found in America a man fit to be a leader. A man of great moral courage, selfless and possessing other good qualities. He wasn't the best. He was the best one you could get. (Talking about Olcott.) - E.S. With him we have connected a woman with the most exceptional and wonderful gifts. However, she had great personal flaws. But as she was, she remained unsurpassed, for there was no man more fit for the job. We sent it to America, brought them together, and the trial began. (Maybe we were brought together, too?) How else? Read between the lines. - E.S. From the very beginning, she and he were taught that the outcome was entirely up to them. And they both offered themselves for this trial for some reward in the distant future. As KH used to say, as soldiers volunteering for a hopeless cause. (Also Hal offered himself, and with him we offered ourselves as soldiers who volunteered for a hopeless cause.) Listen carefully. - E.S.

For six and a half years they have been fighting against such unequal forces as would discourage anyone who has not worked with the desperation of a man who has invested his life and all that is dear to him in the desperate highest effort. Their success fell short of the hopes of their initial masterminds, though it was phenomenal in some ways. A few more months and the test period will end. (Look, that applies to us too. - E.S. If by that time the state of affairs in society with respect to them has not been settled, or excluded from the program of society, or accepted on our terms, it will be the latter of brothers of all shapes, colors, sizes, and degrees. \[...\]

And they failed. And since the teachers promised, it's been the last about brothers of all shapes, all colors and all levels. The effort was suspended to the Acropolis literally. And the Acropolis is still suspended. This is what they say before the next septenary cycle, when, if circumstances are more favorable, then we will talk again about whether something can be done. Until now, no matter how much effort has been made, it has not been possible to shake things up like this, to show such a force of purity and sacrifice that this ban was lifted. And why is 2000 important? Because this is the end of the seven-year cycle that was agreed with HAL from the very beginning. Perhaps, or perhaps not, we will, if we deserve it, talk about teachers again taking a direct part in the life of the world and man, in some, albeit small form, as they did in the 19th century. But it still has to be earned.

\[...\] In fact, if we want to enter a new age and give impetus to the sixth sub-race of the fifth race, there is one basic idea: the brotherhood of souls will save the world. The brotherhood of souls, which must be awakened and worked on it as we know and can, is a task in relation to our duty in the outer world. And the brotherhood of souls within that core which is to become the bearer of the mysteries and the bearer of truth. Strange as it may sound, the basic criterion for becoming the bearer of the Mysteries and the future esoteric school is the brotherhood between those who are now forming the core of the school.

\[...\] We are not as old, ancient, prepared souls as those around HPB. It's obvious. A good example, starting with me. Except for Hal and Delia, we all brew in the same porridge. We are as small as souls. Yeah, we're weak. We have no initiates, no accepted students. But there is one great thing called communicating vessels. That is, there are great entities behind us. Not just Hal and Delia, but great teachers. And if it requires, and requires, that is certain, then every little disciple, even if not accepted, can become a conduit of the power of the great old and ancient soul. Not even being one. And if we are small and not ancient ourselves, then we can exercise a power that we do not have. And that is the whole essence of our secret mysteries, the whole essence of our task. Naturally, we will not do anything on our own. But to become a disciple, that is, to become a vessel, a vehicle of the soul and strength of someone higher and more true, is our salvation and salvation of the people for whom we work. So not only is hope not lost, but on the contrary, there is hope, otherwise one might hang oneself from the first tree.

The school of apprenticeship is a great force. This is the light that we have to be the conductor of, that is what it is. \[...\] This gives the strength of the whole mission to endure and not be called yet another failed attempt, as was the case with the Theosophical Society immediately after the death of HPB. Hal's gone, we're still holding on. Sorry, but this is a great progress, this has not happened in history. Because there's Delia. And then what? We need to create a chain, otherwise we have a mission. The impulse of the sixth race will wait for God knows how long. People will again be eating in their chaos, confusion, without criteria, without much.

The Theosophical mission, as well as ours, the HAL has repeatedly told us about it, the teachers called a desperate enterprise. And that's what they called Hal's mission, a desperate enterprise. I want you to realize that anything we do right now is a desperate endeavor. It's a cry in the desert. Reading, this is teacher KH.

“What did I mean by a desperate undertaking? That means the following. If we consider the great tasks facing our Theosophical Volunteers, especially if we look at the many active forces already lined up or about to line up to oppose them (we have not yet come to this, but this is waiting for us, keep in mind). We may well equate the speech of the Theosophists with those desperate efforts directed against the overwhelming superiority of the enemy, to which true soldiers are launched in the name of glory. You did well to see a great purpose in a small undertaking of the Theosophical Society. (I can tell you, too, as if the teachers were telling us: you guys did well, that you realized that in the small undertakings of the Acropolis, any small undertaking, direction, poster, there is a big goal behind it, a desperate enterprise.) - E.S. Of course, if we ourselves had taken over its foundation and management, it is quite possible that it would have been more perfect and made fewer mistakes. But we couldn't do that. Nor was it part of our plans. The task was given to two of our agents (the same, Hal and Delia to us). There's Olcott, there's Blavatsky, there's Hal and Delia. - E.S. And they were left to do whatever they could under the circumstances, whatever was going on in the outside world, whatever the opposition of the outside world was. Much has been done (the same can be said for the Acropolis). - E.S. Under the surface of Spiritualism, an expanding current is making its way. When it appears on the surface, its effect will be obvious. Many minds, like you, are already pondering the question of occult laws, forced to do so by your work, your agitation. Like you, they are not content with what has hitherto been achievable and demand something better, higher. Let it cheer you up. (It's like we're being told, isn't it?) Unity always gives strength. And since occultism today resembles a desperate enterprise, unity and cooperation are necessary. Unity does mean the concentration of vital and magnetic energies against the hostile currents of prejudice and fanaticism.”

If for generations we have saved the world from knowledge, from our knowledge, it is only because it is absolutely unprepared. And if, despite this evidence, this world still refuses to yield to the evidence, then at the end of this cycle we shall once again retire into solitude and into our realm of silence. Countless generations have built great temples of immutable rocks, a giant tower of infinite thought, where the titan lived and will live. If necessary, one will dwell, leaving it only at the end of each cycle to invite the elect of mankind to cooperate with him and help him enlighten the superstitious man. (This is the end of each cycle when titanium in quotation marks should come out if the soil is prepared for it.) - E.S. We will continue this periodic work. We will not allow ourselves to be confused in our philanthropic endeavors until the foundation of a new world, of thought, is so firmly built that no amount of opposition and ignorant deceit, guided by the brothers of darkness, can overcome. But before this day of final triumph, and it will come, if we work together, someone must be sacrificed. Although we accept only voluntary. (Speaks further about EPB. - E.S. The ungrateful task humiliated her, led her to destruction and suffering and isolation. But she will receive her reward in the Hereafter, for we are never ungrateful.

That's the problem. The question does not depend on us, it depends on them. They fight, they will not stop fighting. But until that day (they know when that day will come and they will fight for it) there are people who will be sacrificed, who will fight with them. And this is the task of the Acropolis in the 20th century. And look at the context, this is my comment. The year 2000 is the year when this famous titan in this great temple (it's symbolic, don't ask me to tell you what it is, I don't know, it's a great sacrament) is when he can or is ready to go out, give some of the things that have never been given to humanity. But it is unlikely to work, because the soil is not prepared.

And imagine, in relation to this great task, what folly our doubts and weaknesses are! Now I can, tomorrow I can’t, work this out, I will or won’t, I will sleep or not sleep, I will eat or not eat, I know how to work with people or I don’t know how, I am in my direction or not in my direction – these are such idiocy! Such idiots! If people need any noble overcoming of themselves for the common cause, the common good of mankind. But we will whine and ask again: we will – we will not, we have – we do not have, whether they have the right to do this to us or not, etc. You see how stupid and stupid this is! I hope I made myself clear.

I quote further. They talk about HPB, and I tell you, this is what they say about her, the same thing to say about Hal and Delia, to understand their great sacrifice. Where did these people go and how did they sacrifice themselves? Writes Master KH. It's about EPB.

“I am painfully aware that the usual inconsistency of her statements, especially when she is agitated, and the strange behavior, in your opinion, make her a highly undesirable transmitter of our messages. (When everyone turned against HPB and said that it had a lot of faults and how could it lead the Theosophical Society.) Keep listening. - E.S. Nevertheless, my dear brothers, you may look at her with very different eyes (and now look at Hal and Delia with very different eyes). - E.S., if you know the truth. If you are told that this unbalanced mind, the seeming absurdity of her speeches and ideas, her nervous agitation, in short, everything that is considered disturbing the peace of sober-minded people whose notions of restraint and manners are shocked by the strange outbursts of her temperament, and what is so disgusting to you, if you are told that she is not to blame for anything. Although it is not yet time to devote you entirely to this mystery, that you are not yet prepared to understand this great mystery, even if it is told to you, owing to the great injustice and resentment inflicted upon it, I am authorized to allow you to look beyond the curtain. This condition of hers is closely related to her occult training in the crypts of Tibet and is caused by her being sent alone into the world to gradually prepare the way of others. (Listen carefully. - E.S. After nearly a century of fruitless searches, our leaders had to use the only opportunity to send a European woman to European soil to create a link between their country and ours.

(Several centuries they searched for man and found EBB in the 19th century and HAL in the 20th.) Centuries of search have sought to bring HPB into the 19th century, HAL into the 20th century, and to establish the Theosophical Society and the Acropolis. Isn’t that a reason to do less of our stupidity? Centuries of searching! - E.S.

Do you understand? Of course not. Then please remember what she was trying to explain and what you learned pretty well from her. The seven principles of the perfect human being. No man or woman, unless they are initiates of the fifth circle, may leave the region of Bod Lhas (meaning the region of the Island where the Masters reside). - E C.) and return to the whole world. At the very least, one of his satellites has to stay, for two reasons: the first to form the necessary link, the transmission wire, the second as the best guarantee that some things will never be divulged. EPB is not an exception to the rule.”

Neither you nor I will ever understand these mysteries, which are now opening a little. A messenger of the type of EBB and HAL, which is prepared by teachers (remember the biography of HAL, once again remember what a person had to go through), he cannot return to the world completely, completely. One part of his personality and persona, one part of him always remains where there are teachers, and he appears as the crucified Christ. He can't relax. One part is among them, because it is necessary to create a link between the island and the human world. And he's the guarantor. If a part of the secrets is revealed to him, then the messenger dies. And so he remains, on the one hand, like a hostage: if the mission fails, then karma is on me and on my shoulders. On the other hand, as the only possible guide.

So that explains what I told you before: There are not many guides. Two men have been sought for centuries, the E.P.B. and the HAL. It is such a burden, such a cross that not everyone can withstand it. And imagine what Delia is like now, who inherited it without being prepared in crypts! And I think this is at least an excuse for us to do less stupid things and think less about ourselves.

\[...\] That's us too. The Theosophical Society failed, another attempt. They told Theosophists, they told us. Teacher Koot Hoomi, teachers' letters.

Phenomenal elements, which were never thought of or dreamed of before (I say again, the year 2000 is connected with this) will soon begin to manifest day by day, with ever-increasing force and will finally reveal the secrets of their innermost actions. Plato was right: thoughts rule the world. And when the human mind gets new thoughts (God forbid, it depends on us whether the human mind gets new thoughts in the year 2000). It depended on Theosophists, but it didn't work. - E.S.), then, throwing away the old, barren, the world will begin to accelerate its development. Powerful revolutions will break out from them. Beliefs and even states will disintegrate before their aspirational movement, crushed by this irresistible force. When the time comes, it will be as impossible to resist their influx as to stop the flow. But it will all be gradual. And before that happens, we must fulfill our duty. (Listen carefully, talk about us.) We must fulfill the duty we owe ourselves. - E.S. Dispose, as much as possible, of the garbage left to us by our pious forefathers. New ideas should be planted in clean places. (Doesn't that tell you the reason for the house of life?) The more clean places there are, the more likely it is that something will work out. And our task is to create clean places, houses of life, in which everything pure in human nature, in terms of moral states, virtues, etc., will be preserved, and everything pure in universal wisdom, everything pure in the code of honor. The elder mahatmas desire that the brotherhood of humanity, the true brotherhood of the world, which must be manifested throughout the world and which must attract the attention of the highest minds, should be initiated.

Here's the challenge, here's the desperate venture. A world brotherhood that must be manifested all over the world, so the Acropolis is all over the world, and clean places, and attract the attention of the highest minds from outside. Not occultism, not parapsychological phenomena, but brotherhood, purity, a new view of the world, a new way of life. If we do not attract the attention of the highest minds and turn around among our four walls, we can assume that our task is not fulfilled. It is very important that we remember this. \[...\]
